one gleam of light lifted into relief a half-submerged mast , on which sat a cormorant , dark and large , with wings flecked with foam ; its beak held a gold bracelet set with gems , that i had touched with as brilliant tints as my palette could yield , and as glittering distinctness as my pencil could impart .
sinking below the bird and mast , a drowned corpse glanced through the green water ; a fair arm was the only limb clearly visible , whence the bracelet had been washed or torn .
the second picture contained for foreground only the dim peak of a hill , with grass and some leaves slanting as if by a breeze .
beyond and above spread an expanse of sky , dark blue as at twilight : rising into the sky was a woman 's shape to the bust , portrayed in tints as dusk and soft as i could combine .
the dim forehead was crowned with a star ; the lineaments below were seen as through the suffusion of vapour ; the eyes shone dark and wild ; the hair streamed shadowy , like a beamless cloud torn by storm or by electric travail .
on the neck lay a pale reflection like moonlight ; the same faint lustre touched the train of thin clouds from which rose and bowed this vision of the evening star .
the third showed the pinnacle of an iceberg piercing a polar winter sky : a muster of northern lights reared their dim lances , close serried , along the horizon .
throwing these into distance , rose , in the foreground , a head , --a colossal head , inclined towards the iceberg , and resting against it .
two thin hands , joined under the forehead , and supporting it , drew up before the lower features a sable veil , a brow quite bloodless , white as bone , and an eye hollow and fixed , blank of meaning but for the glassiness of despair , alone were visible .
above the temples , amidst wreathed turban folds of black drapery , vague in its character and consistency as cloud , gleamed a ring of white flame , gemmed with sparkles of a more lurid tinge .
this pale crescent was " the likeness of a kingly crown ; " what it diademed was " the shape which shape had none . "
" were you happy when you painted these pictures ? " asked mr. rochester presently .
" i was absorbed , sir : yes , and i was happy . to paint them , in short , was to enjoy one of the keenest pleasures i have ever known . "
" that is not saying much .
your pleasures , by your own account , have been few ; but i daresay you did exist in a kind of artist 's dreamland while you blent and arranged these strange tints .
did you sit at them long each day ? "
" i had nothing else to do , because it was the vacation , and i sat at them from morning till noon , and from noon till night : the length of the midsummer days favoured my inclination to apply . "
" and you felt self-satisfied with the result of your ardent labours ? "
" far from it . i was tormented by the contrast between my idea and my handiwork : in each case i had imagined something which i was quite powerless to realise . "
" not quite : you have secured the shadow of your thought ; but no more , probably .
you had not enough of the artist 's skill and science to give it full being : yet the drawings are , for a school-girl , peculiar . as to the thoughts , they are elfish .
these eyes in the evening star you must have seen in a dream .
how could you make them look so clear , and yet not at all brilliant ? for the planet above quells their rays .
and what meaning is that in their solemn depth ?
and who taught you to paint wind ?
there is a high gale in that sky , and on this hill-top .
where did you see latmos ?
for that is latmos .
there ! put the drawings away ! " i had scarce tied the strings of the portfolio , when , looking at his watch , he said abruptly-- " it is nine o 'clock : what are you about , miss eyre , to let adele sit up so long ?
take her to bed . "
adele went to kiss him before quitting the room : he endured the caress , but scarcely seemed to relish it more than pilot would have done , nor so much .
" i wish you all good-night , now , " said he , making a movement of the hand towards the door , in token that he was tired of our company , and wished to dismiss us .
mrs. fairfax folded up her knitting : i took my portfolio : we curtseyed to him , received a frigid bow in return , and so withdrew .
" you said mr. rochester was not strikingly peculiar , mrs. fairfax , " i observed , when i rejoined her in her room , after putting adele to bed .
" well , is he ? "
" i think so : he is very changeful and abrupt . "
" true : no doubt he may appear so to a stranger , but i am so accustomed to his manner , i never think of it ; and then , if he has peculiarities of temper , allowance should be made . " " why ? "
" partly because it is his nature--and we can none of us help our nature ; and partly because he has painful thoughts , no doubt , to harass him , and make his spirits unequal . "
" what about ? " " family troubles , for one thing . " " but he has no family . "
" not now , but he has had--or , at least , relatives . he lost his elder brother a few years since . "
" his _ elder _ brother ? "
" yes . the present mr. rochester has not been very long in possession of the property ; only about nine years . "
" nine years is a tolerable time . was he so very fond of his brother as to be still inconsolable for his loss ? "
" why , no--perhaps not .
i believe there were some misunderstandings between them .
mr. rowland rochester was not quite just to mr. edward ; and perhaps he prejudiced his father against him .
the old gentleman was fond of money , and anxious to keep the family estate together .
he did not like to diminish the property by division , and yet he was anxious that mr. edward should have wealth , too , to keep up the consequence of the name ; and , soon after he was of age , some steps were taken that were not quite fair , and made a great deal of mischief .
old mr. rochester and mr. rowland combined to bring mr. edward into what he considered a painful position , for the sake of making his fortune : what the precise nature of that position was i never clearly knew , but his spirit could not brook what he had to suffer in it .
" why should he shun it ? "
" perhaps he thinks it gloomy . "
the answer was evasive .
i should have liked something clearer ; but mrs. fairfax either could not , or would not , give me more explicit information of the origin and nature of mr. rochester 's trials .
she averred they were a mystery to herself , and that what she knew was chiefly from conjecture . it was evident , indeed , that she wished me to drop the subject , which i did accordingly .
chapter xiv
for several subsequent days i saw little of mr. rochester .
in the mornings he seemed much engaged with business , and , in the afternoon , gentlemen from millcote or the neighbourhood called , and sometimes stayed to dine with him .
when his sprain was well enough to admit of horse exercise , he rode out a good deal ; probably to return these visits , as he generally did not come back till late at night .
during this interval , even adele was seldom sent for to his presence , and all my acquaintance with him was confined to an occasional rencontre in the hall , on the stairs , or in the gallery , when he would sometimes pass me haughtily and coldly , just acknowledging my presence by a distant nod or a cool glance , and sometimes bow and smile with gentlemanlike affability .
his changes of mood did not offend me , because i saw that i had nothing to do with their alternation ; the ebb and flow depended on causes quite disconnected with me .
one day he had had company to dinner , and had sent for my portfolio ; in order , doubtless , to exhibit its contents : the gentlemen went away early , to attend a public meeting at millcote , as mrs. fairfax informed me ; but the night being wet and inclement , mr. rochester did not accompany them .
soon after they were gone he rang the bell : a message came that i and adele were to go downstairs .
i brushed adele 's hair and made her neat , and having ascertained that i was myself in my usual quaker trim , where there was nothing to retouch--all being too close and plain , braided locks included , to admit of disarrangement--we descended , adele wondering whether the _ petit coffre _ was at length come ; for , owing to some mistake , its arrival had hitherto been delayed .
she was gratified : there it stood , a little carton , on the table when we entered the dining-room . she appeared to know it by instinct .
" ma boite ! ma boite ! " exclaimed she , running towards it .
" yes , there is your ' boite ' at last : take it into a corner , you genuine daughter of paris , and amuse yourself with disembowelling it , " said the deep and rather sarcastic voice of mr. rochester , proceeding from the depths of an immense easy-chair at the fireside .
" and mind , " he continued , " don 't bother me with any details of the anatomical process , or any notice of the condition of the entrails : let your operation be conducted in silence : tiens-toi tranquille , enfant ; comprends-tu ? "
adele seemed scarcely to need the warning--she had already retired to a sofa with her treasure , and was busy untying the cord which secured the lid .
having removed this impediment , and lifted certain silvery envelopes of tissue paper , she merely exclaimed--
" oh ciel ! que c 'est beau ! " and then remained absorbed in ecstatic contemplation .
" is miss eyre there ? " now demanded the master , half rising from his seat to look round to the door , near which i still stood .
" ah ! well , come forward ; be seated here . " he drew a chair near his own .
" i am not fond of the prattle of children , " he continued ; " for , old bachelor as i am , i have no pleasant associations connected with their lisp . it would be intolerable to me to pass a whole evening _ tete-a-tete _ with a brat .
don 't draw that chair farther off , miss eyre ; sit down exactly where i placed it--if you please , that is . confound these civilities !
i continually forget them . nor do i particularly affect simple-minded old ladies .
by-the-bye , i must have mine in mind ; it won 't do to neglect her ; she is a fairfax , or wed to one ; and blood is said to be thicker than water . "
he rang , and despatched an invitation to mrs. fairfax , who soon arrived , knitting-basket in hand .
" good evening , madam ; i sent to you for a charitable purpose .
i have forbidden adele to talk to me about her presents , and she is bursting with repletion : have the goodness to serve her as auditress and interlocutrice ; it will be one of the most benevolent acts you ever performed . "
adele , indeed , no sooner saw mrs. fairfax , than she summoned her to her sofa , and there quickly filled her lap with the porcelain , the ivory , the waxen contents of her " boite ; " pouring out , meantime , explanations and raptures in such broken english as she was mistress of .
" now i have performed the part of a good host , " pursued mr. rochester , " put my guests into the way of amusing each other , i ought to be at liberty to attend to my own pleasure .
miss eyre , draw your chair still a little farther forward : you are yet too far back ; i cannot see you without disturbing my position in this comfortable chair , which i have no mind to do . "
i did as i was bid , though i would much rather have remained somewhat in the shade ; but mr. rochester had such a direct way of giving orders , it seemed a matter of course to obey him promptly .
we were , as i have said , in the dining-room : the lustre , which had been lit for dinner , filled the room with a festal breadth of light ; the large fire was all red and clear ; the purple curtains hung rich and ample before the lofty window and loftier arch ; everything was still , save the subdued chat of adele ( she dared not speak loud ) , and , filling up each pause , the beating of winter rain against the panes .
mr. rochester , as he sat in his damask-covered chair , looked different to what i had seen him look before ; not quite so stern--much less gloomy .
there was a smile on his lips , and his eyes sparkled , whether with wine or not , i am not sure ; but i think it very probable .
he was , in short , in his after-dinner mood ; more expanded and genial , and also more self- indulgent than the frigid and rigid temper of the morning ; still he looked preciously grim , cushioning his massive head against the swelling back of his chair , and receiving the light of the fire on his granite- hewn features , and in his great , dark eyes ; for he had great , dark eyes , and very fine eyes , too--not without a certain change in their depths sometimes , which , if it was not softness , reminded you , at least , of that feeling .
he had been looking two minutes at the fire , and i had been looking the same length of time at him , when , turning suddenly , he caught my gaze fastened on his physiognomy .
" you examine me , miss eyre , " said he : " do you think me handsome ? "
i should , if i had deliberated , have replied to this question by something conventionally vague and polite ; but the answer somehow slipped from my tongue before i was aware
-- " no , sir . "
by my word ! there is something singular about you , " said he : " you have the air of a little _ nonnette _ ; quaint , quiet , grave , and simple , as you sit with your hands before you , and your eyes generally bent on the carpet ( except , by-the-bye , when they are directed piercingly to my face ; as just now , for instance ) ; and when one asks you a question , or makes a remark to which you are obliged to reply , you rap out a round rejoinder , which , if not blunt , is at least brusque . what do you mean by it ? "
" sir , i was too plain ; i beg your pardon . i ought to have replied that it was not easy to give an impromptu answer to a question about appearances ; that tastes mostly differ ; and that beauty is of little consequence , or something of that sort . "
" you ought to have replied no such thing .
beauty of little consequence , indeed !
and so , under pretence of softening the previous outrage , of stroking and soothing me into placidity , you stick a sly penknife under my ear !
go on : what fault do you find with me , pray ?
i suppose i have all my limbs and all my features like any other man ? "
" mr. rochester , allow me to disown my first answer : i intended no pointed repartee : it was only a blunder . "
" just so : i think so : and you shall be answerable for it .
criticise me : does my forehead not please you ? "
he lifted up the sable waves of hair which lay horizontally over his brow , and showed a solid enough mass of intellectual organs , but an abrupt deficiency where the suave sign of benevolence should have risen .
" now , ma 'am , am i a fool ? "
" far from it , sir . you would , perhaps , think me rude if i inquired in return whether you are a philanthropist ? "
" there again ! another stick of the penknife , when she pretended to pat my head : and that is because i said i did not like the society of children and old women ( low be it spoken ! ) .
no , young lady , i am not a general philanthropist ; but i bear a conscience ; " and he pointed to the prominences which are said to indicate that faculty , and which , fortunately for him , were sufficiently conspicuous ; giving , indeed , a marked breadth to the upper part of his head : " and , besides , i once had a kind of rude tenderness of heart .
when i was as old as you , i was a feeling fellow enough , partial to the unfledged , unfostered , and unlucky ; but fortune has knocked me about since : she has even kneaded me with her knuckles , and now i flatter myself i am hard and tough as an india-rubber ball ; pervious , though , through a chink or two still , and with one sentient point in the middle of the lump .
yes : does that leave hope for me ? "
" hope of what , sir ? "
" of my final re-transformation from india-rubber back to flesh ? "
" decidedly he has had too much wine , " i thought ; and i did not know what answer to make to his queer question : how could i tell whether he was capable of being re-transformed ?
" you looked very much puzzled , miss eyre ; and though you are not pretty any more than i am handsome , yet a puzzled air becomes you ; besides , it is convenient , for it keeps those searching eyes of yours away from my physiognomy , and busies them with the worsted flowers of the rug ; so puzzle on .
young lady , i am disposed to be gregarious and communicative to-night . "
with this announcement he rose from his chair , and stood , leaning his arm on the marble mantelpiece : in that attitude his shape was seen plainly as well as his face ; his unusual breadth of chest , disproportionate almost to his length of limb .
i am sure most people would have thought him an ugly man ; yet there was so much unconscious pride in his port ; so much ease in his demeanour ; such a look of complete indifference to his own external appearance ; so haughty a reliance on the power of other qualities , intrinsic or adventitious , to atone for the lack of mere personal attractiveness , that , in looking at him , one inevitably shared the indifference , and , even in a blind , imperfect sense , put faith in the confidence .
" i am disposed to be gregarious and communicative to-night , " he repeated , " and that is why i sent for you : the fire and the chandelier were not sufficient company for me ; nor would pilot have been , for none of these can talk .
adele is a degree better , but still far below the mark ; mrs. fairfax ditto ; you , i am persuaded , can suit me if you will : you puzzled me the first evening i invited you down here .
i have almost forgotten you since : other ideas have driven yours from my head ; but to-night i am resolved to be at ease ; to dismiss what importunes , and recall what pleases .
instead of speaking , i smiled ; and not a very complacent or submissive smile either .
" speak , " he urged .
" what about , sir ? " " whatever you like .
i leave both the choice of subject and the manner of treating it entirely to yourself . "
accordingly i sat and said nothing : " if he expects me to talk for the mere sake of talking and showing off , he will find he has addressed himself to the wrong person , " i thought .
" you are dumb , miss eyre . "
i was dumb still . he bent his head a little towards me , and with a single hasty glance seemed to dive into my eyes .
" stubborn ? " he said , " and annoyed . ah ! it is consistent . i put my request in an absurd , almost insolent form .
miss eyre , i beg your pardon . the fact is , once for all , i don 't wish to treat you like an inferior : that is " ( correcting himself ) , " i claim only such superiority as must result from twenty years ' difference in age and a century 's advance in experience .
this is legitimate , _ et j 'y tiens _ , as adele would say ; and it is by virtue of this superiority , and this alone , that i desire you to have the goodness to talk to me a little now , and divert my thoughts , which are galled with dwelling on one point--cankering as a rusty nail . "
he had deigned an explanation , almost an apology , and i did not feel insensible to his condescension , and would not seem so .
" i am willing to amuse you , if i can , sir--quite willing ; but i cannot introduce a topic , because how do i know what will interest you ?
ask me questions , and i will do my best to answer them . "
" then , in the first place , do you agree with me that i have a right to be a little masterful , abrupt , perhaps exacting , sometimes , on the grounds i stated , namely , that i am old enough to be your father , and that i have battled through a varied experience with many men of many nations , and roamed over half the globe , while you have lived quietly with one set of people in one house ? "
" do as you please , sir . "
" that is no answer ; or rather it is a very irritating , because a very evasive one . reply clearly . "
" i don 't think , sir , you have a right to command me , merely because you are older than i , or because you have seen more of the world than i have ; your claim to superiority depends on the use you have made of your time and experience . "
" humph ! promptly spoken .
but i won 't allow that , seeing that it would never suit my case , as i have made an indifferent , not to say a bad , use of both advantages .
leaving superiority out of the question , then , you must still agree to receive my orders now and then , without being piqued or hurt by the tone of command . will you ? "
i smiled : i thought to myself mr. rochester _ is _ peculiar--he seems to forget that he pays me 30 pounds per annum for receiving his orders .
" the smile is very well , " said he , catching instantly the passing expression ; " but speak too . "
" i was thinking , sir , that very few masters would trouble themselves to inquire whether or not their paid subordinates were piqued and hurt by their orders . "
" paid subordinates ! what ! you are my paid subordinate , are you ?
oh yes , i had forgotten the salary ! well then , on that mercenary ground , will you agree to let me hector a little ? "
" no , sir , not on that ground ; but , on the ground that you did forget it , and that you care whether or not a dependent is comfortable in his dependency , i agree heartily . "
" and will you consent to dispense with a great many conventional forms and phrases , without thinking that the omission arises from insolence ? "
" i am sure , sir , i should never mistake informality for insolence : one i rather like , the other nothing free-born would submit to , even for a salary . "
" humbug !
most things free-born will submit to anything for a salary ; therefore , keep to yourself , and don 't venture on generalities of which you are intensely ignorant .
however , i mentally shake hands with you for your answer , despite its inaccuracy ; and as much for the manner in which it was said , as for the substance of the speech ; the manner was frank and sincere ; one does not often see such a manner : no , on the contrary , affectation , or coldness , or stupid , coarse-minded misapprehension of one 's meaning are the usual rewards of candour .
not three in three thousand raw school-girl-governesses would have answered me as you have just done .
but i don 't mean to flatter you : if you are cast in a different mould to the majority , it is no merit of yours : nature did it .
and then , after all , i go too fast in my conclusions : for what i yet know , you may be no better than the rest ; you may have intolerable defects to counterbalance your few good points . "
" and so may you , " i thought .
my eye met his as the idea crossed my mind : he seemed to read the glance , answering as if its import had been spoken as well as imagined--
" yes , yes , you are right , " said he ; " i have plenty of faults of my own : i know it , and i don 't wish to palliate them , i assure you .
god wot i need not be too severe about others ; i have a past existence , a series of deeds , a colour of life to contemplate within my own breast , which might well call my sneers and censures from my neighbours to myself .
i started , or rather ( for like other defaulters , i like to lay half the blame on ill fortune and adverse circumstances ) was thrust on to a wrong tack at the age of one-and-twenty , and have never recovered the right course since : but i might have been very different ; i might have been as good as you--wiser--almost as stainless . i envy you your peace of mind , your clean conscience , your unpolluted memory .
little girl , a memory without blot or contamination must be an exquisite treasure--an inexhaustible source of pure refreshment : is it not ? "
" how was your memory when you were eighteen , sir ? "
" all right then ; limpid , salubrious : no gush of bilge water had turned it to fetid puddle .
i was your equal at eighteen--quite your equal . nature meant me to be , on the whole , a good man , miss eyre ; one of the better kind , and you see i am not so . you would say you don 't see it ; at least i flatter myself i read as much in your eye ( beware , by-the-bye , what you express with that organ ; i am quick at interpreting its language ) .
then take my word for it , --i am not a villain : you are not to suppose that--not to attribute to me any such bad eminence ; but , owing , i verily believe , rather to circumstances than to my natural bent , i am a trite commonplace sinner , hackneyed in all the poor petty dissipations with which the rich and worthless try to put on life .
do you wonder that i avow this to you ? know , that in the course of your future life you will often find yourself elected the involuntary confidant of your acquaintances ' secrets : people will instinctively find out , as i have done , that it is not your forte to tell of yourself , but to listen while others talk of themselves ; they will feel , too , that you listen with no malevolent scorn of their indiscretion , but with a kind of innate sympathy ; not the less comforting and encouraging because it is very unobtrusive in its manifestations . "
" how do you know ? --how can you guess all this , sir ? "
" i know it well ; therefore i proceed almost as freely as if i were writing my thoughts in a diary .
you would say , i should have been superior to circumstances ; so i should--so i should ; but you see i was not .
when fate wronged me , i had not the wisdom to remain cool : i turned desperate ; then i degenerated .
now , when any vicious simpleton excites my disgust by his paltry ribaldry , i cannot flatter myself that i am better than he : i am forced to confess that he and i are on a level .
i wish i had stood firm--god knows i do !
dread remorse when you are tempted to err , miss eyre ; remorse is the poison of life . "
" repentance is said to be its cure , sir . "
" it is not its cure . reformation may be its cure ; and i could reform--i have strength yet for that--if--but where is the use of thinking of it , hampered , burdened , cursed as i am ?
besides , since happiness is irrevocably denied me , i have a right to get pleasure out of life : and i _ will _ get it , cost what it may . "
" then you will degenerate still more , sir . "
" possibly : yet why should i , if i can get sweet , fresh pleasure ? and i may get it as sweet and fresh as the wild honey the bee gathers on the moor . "
" it will sting--it will taste bitter , sir . "
" how do you know ? --you never tried it .
how very serious--how very solemn you look : and you are as ignorant of the matter as this cameo head " ( taking one from the mantelpiece ) .
" you have no right to preach to me , you neophyte , that have not passed the porch of life , and are absolutely unacquainted with its mysteries . " " i only remind you of your own words , sir : you said error brought remorse , and you pronounced remorse the poison of existence . "
" and who talks of error now ? i scarcely think the notion that flittered across my brain was an error . i believe it was an inspiration rather than a temptation : it was very genial , very soothing--i know that .
here it comes again !
it is no devil , i assure you ; or if it be , it has put on the robes of an angel of light . i think i must admit so fair a guest when it asks entrance to my heart . "
" distrust it , sir ; it is not a true angel . "
" once more , how do you know ?
by what instinct do you pretend to distinguish between a fallen seraph of the abyss and a messenger from the eternal throne--between a guide and a seducer ? "
" i judged by your countenance , sir , which was troubled when you said the suggestion had returned upon you . i feel sure it will work you more misery if you listen to it . "
" not at all--it bears the most gracious message in the world : for the rest , you are not my conscience-keeper , so don 't make yourself uneasy .
here , come in , bonny wanderer ! "
he said this as if he spoke to a vision , viewless to any eye but his own ; then , folding his arms , which he had half extended , on his chest , he seemed to enclose in their embrace the invisible being .
" now , " he continued , again addressing me , " i have received the pilgrim--a disguised deity , as i verily believe . already it has done me good : my heart was a sort of charnel ; it will now be a shrine . "
" to speak truth , sir , i don 't understand you at all : i cannot keep up the conversation , because it has got out of my depth .
only one thing , i know : you said you were not as good as you should like to be , and that you regretted your own imperfection ; --one thing i can comprehend : you intimated that to have a sullied memory was a perpetual bane .
it seems to me , that if you tried hard , you would in time find it possible to become what you yourself would approve ; and that if from this day you began with resolution to correct your thoughts and actions , you would in a few years have laid up a new and stainless store of recollections , to which you might revert with pleasure . "
" justly thought ; rightly said , miss eyre ; and , at this moment , i am paving hell with energy . "
" sir ? "
" i am laying down good intentions , which i believe durable as flint .
certainly , my associates and pursuits shall be other than they have been . "
" and better ? "
" and better--so much better as pure ore is than foul dross .
you seem to doubt me ; i don 't doubt myself : i know what my aim is , what my motives are ; and at this moment i pass a law , unalterable as that of the medes and persians , that both are right . "
" they cannot be , sir , if they require a new statute to legalise them . "
" they are , miss eyre , though they absolutely require a new statute : unheard-of combinations of circumstances demand unheard-of rules . "
" that sounds a dangerous maxim , sir ; because one can see at once that it is liable to abuse . "
" sententious sage ! so it is : but i swear by my household gods not to abuse it . "
" you are human and fallible . " " i am : so are you--what then ? "
" the human and fallible should not arrogate a power with which the divine and perfect alone can be safely intrusted . "
" what power ? "
" that of saying of any strange , unsanctioned line of action , -- ' let it be right . ' "
" ' let it be right ' --the very words : you have pronounced them . "
" _ may _ it be right then , " i said , as i rose , deeming it useless to continue a discourse which was all darkness to me ; and , besides , sensible that the character of my interlocutor was beyond my penetration ; at least , beyond its present reach ; and feeling the uncertainty , the vague sense of insecurity , which accompanies a conviction of ignorance .
" where are you going ? " " to put adele to bed : it is past her bedtime . "
" you are afraid of me , because i talk like a sphynx . "
" your language is enigmatical , sir : but though i am bewildered , i am certainly not afraid . "
" you _ are _ afraid--your self-love dreads a blunder . "
" in that sense i do feel apprehensive--i have no wish to talk nonsense . "
" if you did , it would be in such a grave , quiet manner , i should mistake it for sense .
do you never laugh , miss eyre ?
don 't trouble yourself to answer--i see you laugh rarely ; but you can laugh very merrily : believe me , you are not naturally austere , any more than i am naturally vicious .
the lowood constraint still clings to you somewhat ; controlling your features , muffling your voice , and restricting your limbs ; and you fear in the presence of a man and a brother--or father , or master , or what you will--to smile too gaily , speak too freely , or move too quickly : but , in time , i think you will learn to be natural with me , as i find it impossible to be conventional with you ; and then your looks and movements will have more vivacity and variety than they dare offer now .
i see at intervals the glance of a curious sort of bird through the close-set bars of a cage : a vivid , restless , resolute captive is there ; were it but free , it would soar cloud-high . you are still bent on going ? "
" it has struck nine , sir . "
" never mind , --wait a minute : adele is not ready to go to bed yet .
my position , miss eyre , with my back to the fire , and my face to the room , favours observation . while talking to you , i have also occasionally watched adele ( i have my own reasons for thinking her a curious study , --reasons that i may , nay , that i shall , impart to you some day ) .
she pulled out of her box , about ten minutes ago , a little pink silk frock ; rapture lit her face as she unfolded it ; coquetry runs in her blood , blends with her brains , and seasons the marrow of her bones .
'il faut que je l 'essaie ! ' cried she , ' et a l 'instant meme ! ' and she rushed out of the room .
she is now with sophie , undergoing a robing process : in a few minutes she will re-enter ; and i know what i shall see , --a miniature of celine varens , as she used to appear on the boards at the rising of--but never mind that .
however , my tenderest feelings are about to receive a shock : such is my presentiment ; stay now , to see whether it will be realised . "
ere long , adele 's little foot was heard tripping across the hall .
she entered , transformed as her guardian had predicted . a dress of rose-coloured satin , very short , and as full in the skirt as it could be gathered , replaced the brown frock she had previously worn ; a wreath of rosebuds circled her forehead ; her feet were dressed in silk stockings and small white satin sandals .
" est-ce que ma robe va bien ? " cried she , bounding forwards ; " et mes souliers ? et mes bas ?
tenez , je crois que je vais danser ! "
and spreading out her dress , she chasseed across the room till , having reached mr. rochester , she wheeled lightly round before him on tip-toe , then dropped on one knee at his feet , exclaiming--
" monsieur , je vous remercie mille fois de votre bonte ; " then rising , she added , " c 'est comme cela que maman faisait , n 'est-ce pas , monsieur ? "
" pre-cise-ly ! " was the answer ; " and , ' comme cela , ' she charmed my english gold out of my british breeches ' pocket .
i have been green , too , miss eyre , --ay , grass green : not a more vernal tint freshens you now than once freshened me .
my spring is gone , however , but it has left me that french floweret on my hands , which , in some moods , i would fain be rid of .
not valuing now the root whence it sprang ; having found that it was of a sort which nothing but gold dust could manure , i have but half a liking to the blossom , especially when it looks so artificial as just now .
i keep it and rear it rather on the roman catholic principle of expiating numerous sins , great or small , by one good work . i 'll explain all this some day .
good-night . "
chapter xv
mr. rochester did , on a future occasion , explain it .
it was one afternoon , when he chanced to meet me and adele in the grounds : and while she played with pilot and her shuttlecock , he asked me to walk up and down a long beech avenue within sight of her .
he then said that she was the daughter of a french opera-dancer , celine varens , towards whom he had once cherished what he called a " _ grande passion _ . "
this passion celine had professed to return with even superior ardour .
he thought himself her idol , ugly as he was : he believed , as he said , that she preferred his " _ taille d 'athlete _ " to the elegance of the apollo belvidere .
" and , miss eyre , so much was i flattered by this preference of the gallic sylph for her british gnome , that i installed her in an hotel ; gave her a complete establishment of servants , a carriage , cashmeres , diamonds , dentelles , & c .
in short , i began the process of ruining myself in the received style , like any other spoony .
i had not , it seems , the originality to chalk out a new road to shame and destruction , but trode the old track with stupid exactness not to deviate an inch from the beaten centre .
i had--as i deserved to have--the fate of all other spoonies .
happening to call one evening when celine did not expect me , i found her out ; but it was a warm night , and i was tired with strolling through paris , so i sat down in her boudoir ; happy to breathe the air consecrated so lately by her presence .
no , --i exaggerate ; i never thought there was any consecrating virtue about her : it was rather a sort of pastille perfume she had left ; a scent of musk and amber , than an odour of sanctity .
i was just beginning to stifle with the fumes of conservatory flowers and sprinkled essences , when i bethought myself to open the window and step out on to the balcony .
it was moonlight and gaslight besides , and very still and serene . the balcony was furnished with a chair or two ; i sat down , and took out a cigar , --i will take one now , if you will excuse me . "
here ensued a pause , filled up by the producing and lighting of a cigar ; having placed it to his lips and breathed a trail of havannah incense on the freezing and sunless air , he went on--
" i liked bonbons too in those days , miss eyre , and i was _ croquant _ -- ( overlook the barbarism ) -- _ croquant _ chocolate comfits , and smoking alternately , watching meantime the equipages that rolled along the fashionable streets towards the neighbouring opera-house , when in an elegant close carriage drawn by a beautiful pair of english horses , and distinctly seen in the brilliant city-night , i recognised the ' voiture ' i had given celine .
she was returning : of course my heart thumped with impatience against the iron rails i leant upon .
the carriage stopped , as i had expected , at the hotel door ; my flame ( that is the very word for an opera inamorata ) alighted : though muffed in a cloak--an unnecessary encumbrance , by-the-bye , on so warm a june evening--i knew her instantly by her little foot , seen peeping from the skirt of her dress , as she skipped from the carriage-step . bending over the balcony , i was about to murmur ' mon ange ' --in a tone , of course , which should be audible to the ear of love alone--when a figure jumped from the carriage after her ; cloaked also ; but that was a spurred heel which had rung on the pavement , and that was a hatted head which now passed under the arched _ porte cochere _ of the hotel .
" you never felt jealousy , did you , miss eyre ?
of course not : i need not ask you ; because you never felt love .
you have both sentiments yet to experience : your soul sleeps ; the shock is yet to be given which shall waken it .
you think all existence lapses in as quiet a flow as that in which your youth has hitherto slid away . floating on with closed eyes and muffled ears , you neither see the rocks bristling not far off in the bed of the flood , nor hear the breakers boil at their base .
but i tell you--and you may mark my words--you will come some day to a craggy pass in the channel , where the whole of life 's stream will be broken up into whirl and tumult , foam and noise : either you will be dashed to atoms on crag points , or lifted up and borne on by some master-wave into a calmer current--as i am now .
" i like this day ; i like that sky of steel ; i like the sternness and stillness of the world under this frost . i like thornfield , its antiquity , its retirement , its old crow-trees and thorn-trees , its grey facade , and lines of dark windows reflecting that metal welkin : and yet how long have i abhorred the very thought of it , shunned it like a great plague-house ? how i do still abhor-- "
he ground his teeth and was silent : he arrested his step and struck his boot against the hard ground . some hated thought seemed to have him in its grip , and to hold him so tightly that he could not advance .
we were ascending the avenue when he thus paused ; the hall was before us .
lifting his eye to its battlements , he cast over them a glare such as i never saw before or since . pain , shame , ire , impatience , disgust , detestation , seemed momentarily to hold a quivering conflict in the large pupil dilating under his ebon eyebrow .
wild was the wrestle which should be paramount ; but another feeling rose and triumphed : something hard and cynical : self-willed and resolute : it settled his passion and petrified his countenance : he went on--
" during the moment i was silent , miss eyre , i was arranging a point with my destiny . she stood there , by that beech-trunk--a hag like one of those who appeared to macbeth on the heath of forres .
'you like thornfield ? ' she said , lifting her finger ; and then she wrote in the air a memento , which ran in lurid hieroglyphics all along the house-front , between the upper and lower row of windows , ' like it if you can ! like it if you dare ! '
" ' i will like it , ' said i ; ' i dare like it ; ' and " ( he subjoined moodily ) " i will keep my word ; i will break obstacles to happiness , to goodness--yes , goodness .
i wish to be a better man than i have been , than i am ; as job 's leviathan broke the spear , the dart , and the habergeon , hindrances which others count as iron and brass , i will esteem but straw and rotten wood . "
adele here ran before him with her shuttlecock .
" away ! " he cried harshly ; " keep at a distance , child ; or go in to sophie ! "
continuing then to pursue his walk in silence , i ventured to recall him to the point whence he had abruptly diverged-- " did you leave the balcony , sir , " i asked , " when mdlle .
varens entered ? "
i almost expected a rebuff for this hardly well-timed question , but , on the contrary , waking out of his scowling abstraction , he turned his eyes towards me , and the shade seemed to clear off his brow .
" oh , i had forgotten celine ! well , to resume .
when i saw my charmer thus come in accompanied by a cavalier , i seemed to hear a hiss , and the green snake of jealousy , rising on undulating coils from the moonlit balcony , glided within my waistcoat , and ate its way in two minutes to my heart 's core .
strange ! " he exclaimed , suddenly starting again from the point . " strange that i should choose you for the confidant of all this , young lady ; passing strange that you should listen to me quietly , as if it were the most usual thing in the world for a man like me to tell stories of his opera-mistresses to a quaint , inexperienced girl like you ! but the last singularity explains the first , as i intimated once before : you , with your gravity , considerateness , and caution were made to be the recipient of secrets .
besides , i know what sort of a mind i have placed in communication with my own : i know it is one not liable to take infection : it is a peculiar mind : it is a unique one . happily i do not mean to harm it : but , if i did , it would not take harm from me . the more you and i converse , the better ; for while i cannot blight you , you may refresh me . "
after this digression he proceeded--
" i remained in the balcony .
'they will come to her boudoir , no doubt , ' thought i : ' let me prepare an ambush . '
so putting my hand in through the open window , i drew the curtain over it , leaving only an opening through which i could take observations ; then i closed the casement , all but a chink just wide enough to furnish an outlet to lovers ' whispered vows : then i stole back to my chair ; and as i resumed it the pair came in .
my eye was quickly at the aperture . celine 's chamber-maid entered , lit a lamp , left it on the table , and withdrew .
the couple were thus revealed to me clearly : both removed their cloaks , and there was ' the varens , ' shining in satin and jewels , --my gifts of course , --and there was her companion in an officer 's uniform ; and i knew him for a young roue of a vicomte--a brainless and vicious youth whom i had sometimes met in society , and had never thought of hating because i despised him so absolutely .
on recognising him , the fang of the snake jealousy was instantly broken ; because at the same moment my love for celine sank under an extinguisher . a woman who could betray me for such a rival was not worth contending for ; she deserved only scorn ; less , however , than i , who had been her dupe .
" they began to talk ; their conversation eased me completely : frivolous , mercenary , heartless , and senseless , it was rather calculated to weary than enrage a listener .
a card of mine lay on the table ; this being perceived , brought my name under discussion . neither of them possessed energy or wit to belabour me soundly , but they insulted me as coarsely as they could in their little way : especially celine , who even waxed rather brilliant on my personal defects--deformities she termed them .
now it had been her custom to launch out into fervent admiration of what she called my ' _ beaute male _ : ' wherein she differed diametrically from you , who told me point-blank , at the second interview , that you did not think me handsome .
adele here came running up again .
" monsieur , john has just been to say that your agent has called and wishes to see you . "
" ah ! in that case i must abridge .
opening the window , i walked in upon them ; liberated celine from my protection ; gave her notice to vacate her hotel ; offered her a purse for immediate exigencies ; disregarded screams , hysterics , prayers , protestations , convulsions ; made an appointment with the vicomte for a meeting at the bois de boulogne .
next morning i had the pleasure of encountering him ; left a bullet in one of his poor etiolated arms , feeble as the wing of a chicken in the pip , and then thought i had done with the whole crew . but unluckily the varens , six months before , had given me this filette adele , who , she affirmed , was my daughter ; and perhaps she may be , though i see no proofs of such grim paternity written in her countenance : pilot is more like me than she .
some years after i had broken with the mother , she abandoned her child , and ran away to italy with a musician or singer .
i acknowledged no natural claim on adele 's part to be supported by me , nor do i now acknowledge any , for i am not her father ; but hearing that she was quite destitute , i e 'en took the poor thing out of the slime and mud of paris , and transplanted it here , to grow up clean in the wholesome soil of an english country garden .
mrs. fairfax found you to train it ; but now you know that it is the illegitimate offspring of a french opera-girl , you will perhaps think differently of your post and protegee : you will be coming to me some day with notice that you have found another place--that you beg me to look out for a new governess , & c.--eh ? "
" no : adele is not answerable for either her mother 's faults or yours : i have a regard for her ; and now that i know she is , in a sense , parentless--forsaken by her mother and disowned by you , sir--i shall cling closer to her than before .
how could i possibly prefer the spoilt pet of a wealthy family , who would hate her governess as a nuisance , to a lonely little orphan , who leans towards her as a friend ? "
" oh , that is the light in which you view it !
well , i must go in now ; and you too : it darkens . "
but i stayed out a few minutes longer with adele and pilot--ran a race with her , and played a game of battledore and shuttlecock .
when we went in , and i had removed her bonnet and coat , i took her on my knee ; kept her there an hour , allowing her to prattle as she liked : not rebuking even some little freedoms and trivialities into which she was apt to stray when much noticed , and which betrayed in her a superficiality of character , inherited probably from her mother , hardly congenial to an english mind .
still she had her merits ; and i was disposed to appreciate all that was good in her to the utmost .
i sought in her countenance and features a likeness to mr. rochester , but found none : no trait , no turn of expression announced relationship .
it was a pity : if she could but have been proved to resemble him , he would have thought more of her .
it was not till after i had withdrawn to my own chamber for the night , that i steadily reviewed the tale mr. rochester had told me .
as he had said , there was probably nothing at all extraordinary in the substance of the narrative itself : a wealthy englishman 's passion for a french dancer , and her treachery to him , were every-day matters enough , no doubt , in society ; but there was something decidedly strange in the paroxysm of emotion which had suddenly seized him when he was in the act of expressing the present contentment of his mood , and his newly revived pleasure in the old hall and its environs .
i meditated wonderingly on this incident ; but gradually quitting it , as i found it for the present inexplicable , i turned to the consideration of my master 's manner to myself .
the confidence he had thought fit to repose in me seemed a tribute to my discretion : i regarded and accepted it as such .
his deportment had now for some weeks been more uniform towards me than at the first .
i never seemed in his way ; he did not take fits of chilling hauteur : when he met me unexpectedly , the encounter seemed welcome ; he had always a word and sometimes a smile for me : when summoned by formal invitation to his presence , i was honoured by a cordiality of reception that made me feel i really possessed the power to amuse him , and that these evening conferences were sought as much for his pleasure as for my benefit .
i , indeed , talked comparatively little , but i heard him talk with relish . it was his nature to be communicative ; he liked to open to a mind unacquainted with the world glimpses of its scenes and ways ( i do not mean its corrupt scenes and wicked ways , but such as derived their interest from the great scale on which they were acted , the strange novelty by which they were characterised ) ; and i had a keen delight in receiving the new ideas he offered , in imagining the new pictures he portrayed , and following him in thought through the new regions he disclosed , never startled or troubled by one noxious allusion .
the ease of his manner freed me from painful restraint : the friendly frankness , as correct as cordial , with which he treated me , drew me to him .
i felt at times as if he were my relation rather than my master : yet he was imperious sometimes still ; but i did not mind that ; i saw it was his way .
so happy , so gratified did i become with this new interest added to life , that i ceased to pine after kindred : my thin crescent-destiny seemed to enlarge ; the blanks of existence were filled up ; my bodily health improved ; i gathered flesh and strength .
and was mr. rochester now ugly in my eyes ?
no , reader : gratitude , and many associations , all pleasurable and genial , made his face the object i best liked to see ; his presence in a room was more cheering than the brightest fire .
yet i had not forgotten his faults ; indeed , i could not , for he brought them frequently before me .
he was proud , sardonic , harsh to inferiority of every description : in my secret soul i knew that his great kindness to me was balanced by unjust severity to many others .
he was moody , too ; unaccountably so ; i more than once , when sent for to read to him , found him sitting in his library alone , with his head bent on his folded arms ; and , when he looked up , a morose , almost a malignant , scowl blackened his features . but i believed that his moodiness , his harshness , and his former faults of morality ( i say _ former _ , for now he seemed corrected of them ) had their source in some cruel cross of fate .
i believed he was naturally a man of better tendencies , higher principles , and purer tastes than such as circumstances had developed , education instilled , or destiny encouraged .
i thought there were excellent materials in him ; though for the present they hung together somewhat spoiled and tangled . i cannot deny that i grieved for his grief , whatever that was , and would have given much to assuage it .
though i had now extinguished my candle and was laid down in bed , i could not sleep for thinking of his look when he paused in the avenue , and told how his destiny had risen up before him , and dared him to be happy at thornfield .
" why not ? " i asked myself . " what alienates him from the house ?
will he leave it again soon ?
mrs. fairfax said he seldom stayed here longer than a fortnight at a time ; and he has now been resident eight weeks .
if he does go , the change will be doleful .
suppose he should be absent spring , summer , and autumn : how joyless sunshine and fine days will seem ! "
i hardly know whether i had slept or not after this musing ; at any rate , i started wide awake on hearing a vague murmur , peculiar and lugubrious , which sounded , i thought , just above me .
i wished i had kept my candle burning : the night was drearily dark ; my spirits were depressed . i rose and sat up in bed , listening . the sound was hushed .
i tried again to sleep ; but my heart beat anxiously : my inward tranquillity was broken .
the clock , far down in the hall , struck two .
just then it seemed my chamber-door was touched ; as if fingers had swept the panels in groping a way along the dark gallery outside . i said , " who is there ? " nothing answered .
i was chilled with fear .
all at once i remembered that it might be pilot , who , when the kitchen- door chanced to be left open , not unfrequently found his way up to the threshold of mr. rochester 's chamber : i had seen him lying there myself in the mornings .
the idea calmed me somewhat : i lay down .
silence composes the nerves ; and as an unbroken hush now reigned again through the whole house , i began to feel the return of slumber . but it was not fated that i should sleep that night .
a dream had scarcely approached my ear , when it fled affrighted , scared by a marrow-freezing incident enough .
this was a demoniac laugh--low , suppressed , and deep--uttered , as it seemed , at the very keyhole of my chamber door .
the head of my bed was near the door , and i thought at first the goblin-laugher stood at my bedside--or rather , crouched by my pillow : but i rose , looked round , and could see nothing ; while , as i still gazed , the unnatural sound was reiterated : and i knew it came from behind the panels .
my first impulse was to rise and fasten the bolt ; my next , again to cry out ,
" who is there ? "
something gurgled and moaned . ere long , steps retreated up the gallery towards the third-storey staircase : a door had lately been made to shut in that staircase ; i heard it open and close , and all was still .
" was that grace poole ? and is she possessed with a devil ? " thought i. impossible now to remain longer by myself : i must go to mrs. fairfax .
i hurried on my frock and a shawl ; i withdrew the bolt and opened the door with a trembling hand .
there was a candle burning just outside , and on the matting in the gallery .
i was surprised at this circumstance : but still more was i amazed to perceive the air quite dim , as if filled with smoke ; and , while looking to the right hand and left , to find whence these blue wreaths issued , i became further aware of a strong smell of burning .
something creaked : it was a door ajar ; and that door was mr. rochester 's , and the smoke rushed in a cloud from thence .
i thought no more of mrs. fairfax ; i thought no more of grace poole , or the laugh : in an instant , i was within the chamber .
tongues of flame darted round the bed : the curtains were on fire . in the midst of blaze and vapour , mr. rochester lay stretched motionless , in deep sleep .
" wake ! wake ! " i cried .
i shook him , but he only murmured and turned : the smoke had stupefied him .
not a moment could be lost : the very sheets were kindling , i rushed to his basin and ewer ; fortunately , one was wide and the other deep , and both were filled with water . i heaved them up , deluged the bed and its occupant , flew back to my own room , brought my own water-jug , baptized the couch afresh , and , by god 's aid , succeeded in extinguishing the flames which were devouring it .
the hiss of the quenched element , the breakage of a pitcher which i flung from my hand when i had emptied it , and , above all , the splash of the shower-bath i had liberally bestowed , roused mr. rochester at last . though it was now dark , i knew he was awake ; because i heard him fulminating strange anathemas at finding himself lying in a pool of water .
" is there a flood ? " he cried .
" no , sir , " i answered ; " but there has been a fire : get up , do ; you are quenched now ; i will fetch you a candle . "
" in the name of all the elves in christendom , is that jane eyre ? " he demanded .
" what have you done with me , witch , sorceress ?
who is in the room besides you ?
have you plotted to drown me ? "
" i will fetch you a candle , sir ; and , in heaven 's name , get up . somebody has plotted something : you cannot too soon find out who and what it is . "
i am up now ; but at your peril you fetch a candle yet : wait two minutes till i get into some dry garments , if any dry there be--yes , here is my dressing-gown . now run ! "
i did run ; i brought the candle which still remained in the gallery . he took it from my hand , held it up , and surveyed the bed , all blackened and scorched , the sheets drenched , the carpet round swimming in water .
" what is it ? and who did it ? " he asked .
i briefly related to him what had transpired : the strange laugh i had heard in the gallery : the step ascending to the third storey ; the smoke , --the smell of fire which had conducted me to his room ; in what state i had found matters there , and how i had deluged him with all the water i could lay hands on .
he listened very gravely ; his face , as i went on , expressed more concern than astonishment ; he did not immediately speak when i had concluded .
" shall i call mrs. fairfax ? " i asked .
" mrs. fairfax ?
no ; what the deuce would you call her for ?
what can she do ?
let her sleep unmolested . "
" then i will fetch leah , and wake john and his wife . "
" not at all : just be still . you have a shawl on .
if you are not warm enough , you may take my cloak yonder ; wrap it about you , and sit down in the arm-chair : there , --i will put it on . now place your feet on the stool , to keep them out of the wet . i am going to leave you a few minutes .
i shall take the candle . remain where you are till i return ; be as still as a mouse . i must pay a visit to the second storey . don 't move , remember , or call any one . "
he went : i watched the light withdraw . he passed up the gallery very softly , unclosed the staircase door with as little noise as possible , shut it after him , and the last ray vanished . i was left in total darkness .
a very long time elapsed . i grew weary : it was cold , in spite of the cloak ; and then i did not see the use of staying , as i was not to rouse the house .
i was on the point of risking mr. rochester 's displeasure by disobeying his orders , when the light once more gleamed dimly on the gallery wall , and i heard his unshod feet tread the matting .
" i hope it is he , " thought i , " and not something worse . "
he re-entered , pale and very gloomy .
" i have found it all out , " said he , setting his candle down on the washstand ; " it is as i thought . "
" how , sir ? "
he made no reply , but stood with his arms folded , looking on the ground . at the end of a few minutes he inquired in rather a peculiar tone--
" i forget whether you said you saw anything when you opened your chamber door . "
" no , sir , only the candlestick on the ground . "
" but you heard an odd laugh ? you have heard that laugh before , i should think , or something like it ? "
" yes , sir : there is a woman who sews here , called grace poole , --she laughs in that way . she is a singular person . "
" just so . grace poole--you have guessed it . she is , as you say , singular--very .
well , i shall reflect on the subject . meantime , i am glad that you are the only person , besides myself , acquainted with the precise details of to-night 's incident . you are no talking fool : say nothing about it .
i will account for this state of affairs " ( pointing to the bed ) : " and now return to your own room .
i shall do very well on the sofa in the library for the rest of the night .
it is near four : --in two hours the servants will be up . "
" good-night , then , sir , " said i , departing .
he seemed surprised--very inconsistently so , as he had just told me to go .
" what ! " he exclaimed , " are you quitting me already , and in that way ? "
" you said i might go , sir . "
" but not without taking leave ; not without a word or two of acknowledgment and good-will : not , in short , in that brief , dry fashion .
why , you have saved my life ! --snatched me from a horrible and excruciating death ! and you walk past me as if we were mutual strangers ! at least shake hands . "
he held out his hand ; i gave him mine : he took it first in one , them in both his own .
" you have saved my life : i have a pleasure in owing you so immense a debt . i cannot say more .
nothing else that has being would have been tolerable to me in the character of creditor for such an obligation : but you : it is different ; --i feel your benefits no burden , jane . "
he paused ; gazed at me : words almost visible trembled on his lips , --but his voice was checked .
" good-night again , sir . there is no debt , benefit , burden , obligation , in the case . "
" i knew , " he continued , " you would do me good in some way , at some time ; --i saw it in your eyes when i first beheld you : their expression and smile did not " -- ( again he stopped ) -- " did not " ( he proceeded hastily ) " strike delight to my very inmost heart so for nothing .
people talk of natural sympathies ; i have heard of good genii : there are grains of truth in the wildest fable .
my cherished preserver , goodnight ! "
strange energy was in his voice , strange fire in his look .
" i am glad i happened to be awake , " i said : and then i was going .
" what ! you _ will _ go ? "
" i am cold , sir . "
" cold ? yes , --and standing in a pool !
go , then , jane ; go ! " but he still retained my hand , and i could not free it .
i bethought myself of an expedient .
" i think i hear mrs. fairfax move , sir , " said i .
" well , leave me : " he relaxed his fingers , and i was gone .
i regained my couch , but never thought of sleep .
till morning dawned i was tossed on a buoyant but unquiet sea , where billows of trouble rolled under surges of joy .
i thought sometimes i saw beyond its wild waters a shore , sweet as the hills of beulah ; and now and then a freshening gale , wakened by hope , bore my spirit triumphantly towards the bourne : but i could not reach it , even in fancy--a counteracting breeze blew off land , and continually drove me back .
sense would resist delirium : judgment would warn passion . too feverish to rest , i rose as soon as day dawned .
chapter xvi
i both wished and feared to see mr. rochester on the day which followed this sleepless night : i wanted to hear his voice again , yet feared to meet his eye .
during the early part of the morning , i momentarily expected his coming ; he was not in the frequent habit of entering the schoolroom , but he did step in for a few minutes sometimes , and i had the impression that he was sure to visit it that day .
but the morning passed just as usual : nothing happened to interrupt the quiet course of adele 's studies ; only soon after breakfast , i heard some bustle in the neighbourhood of mr. rochester 's chamber , mrs. fairfax 's voice , and leah 's , and the cook 's--that is , john 's wife--and even john 's own gruff tones .
there were exclamations of " what a mercy master was not burnt in his bed ! "
" it is always dangerous to keep a candle lit at night . " " how providential that he had presence of mind to think of the water-jug ! "
" i wonder he waked nobody ! "
" it is to be hoped he will not take cold with sleeping on the library sofa , " & c .
to much confabulation succeeded a sound of scrubbing and setting to rights ; and when i passed the room , in going downstairs to dinner , i saw through the open door that all was again restored to complete order ; only the bed was stripped of its hangings . leah stood up in the window-seat , rubbing the panes of glass dimmed with smoke .
i was about to address her , for i wished to know what account had been given of the affair : but , on advancing , i saw a second person in the chamber--a woman sitting on a chair by the bedside , and sewing rings to new curtains . that woman was no other than grace poole .
there she sat , staid and taciturn-looking , as usual , in her brown stuff gown , her check apron , white handkerchief , and cap .
she was intent on her work , in which her whole thoughts seemed absorbed : on her hard forehead , and in her commonplace features , was nothing either of the paleness or desperation one would have expected to see marking the countenance of a woman who had attempted murder , and whose intended victim had followed her last night to her lair , and ( as i believed ) , charged her with the crime she wished to perpetrate .
i was amazed--confounded . she looked up , while i still gazed at her : no start , no increase or failure of colour betrayed emotion , consciousness of guilt , or fear of detection .
she said " good morning , miss , " in her usual phlegmatic and brief manner ; and taking up another ring and more tape , went on with her sewing .
" i will put her to some test , " thought i : " such absolute impenetrability is past comprehension . "
" good morning , grace , " i said .
" has anything happened here ? i thought i heard the servants all talking together a while ago . "
" only master had been reading in his bed last night ; he fell asleep with his candle lit , and the curtains got on fire ; but , fortunately , he awoke before the bed-clothes or the wood-work caught , and contrived to quench the flames with the water in the ewer . "
" a strange affair ! " i said , in a low voice : then , looking at her fixedly
-- " did mr. rochester wake nobody ? did no one hear him move ? "
she again raised her eyes to me , and this time there was something of consciousness in their expression . she seemed to examine me warily ; then she answered--
" the servants sleep so far off , you know , miss , they would not be likely to hear .
mrs. fairfax 's room and yours are the nearest to master 's ; but mrs. fairfax said she heard nothing : when people get elderly , they often sleep heavy . "
she paused , and then added , with a sort of assumed indifference , but still in a marked and significant tone-- " but you are young , miss ; and i should say a light sleeper : perhaps you may have heard a noise ? "
" i did , " said i , dropping my voice , so that leah , who was still polishing the panes , could not hear me , " and at first i thought it was pilot : but pilot cannot laugh ; and i am certain i heard a laugh , and a strange one . "
she took a new needleful of thread , waxed it carefully , threaded her needle with a steady hand , and then observed , with perfect composure--
" it is hardly likely master would laugh , i should think , miss , when he was in such danger : you must have been dreaming . "
" i was not dreaming , " i said , with some warmth , for her brazen coolness provoked me .
again she looked at me ; and with the same scrutinising and conscious eye .
" have you told master that you heard a laugh ? " she inquired .
" i have not had the opportunity of speaking to him this morning . "
" you did not think of opening your door and looking out into the gallery ? " she further asked .
she appeared to be cross-questioning me , attempting to draw from me information unawares .
the idea struck me that if she discovered i knew or suspected her guilt , she would be playing of some of her malignant pranks on me ; i thought it advisable to be on my guard .
" on the contrary , " said i , " i bolted my door . "
" then you are not in the habit of bolting your door every night before you get into bed ? "
" fiend ! she wants to know my habits , that she may lay her plans accordingly ! "
indignation again prevailed over prudence : i replied sharply , " hitherto i have often omitted to fasten the bolt : i did not think it necessary .
i was not aware any danger or annoyance was to be dreaded at thornfield hall : but in future " ( and i laid marked stress on the words ) " i shall take good care to make all secure before i venture to lie down . "
" it will be wise so to do , " was her answer : " this neighbourhood is as quiet as any i know , and i never heard of the hall being attempted by robbers since it was a house ; though there are hundreds of pounds ' worth of plate in the plate-closet , as is well known .
and you see , for such a large house , there are very few servants , because master has never lived here much ; and when he does come , being a bachelor , he needs little waiting on : but i always think it best to err on the safe side ; a door is soon fastened , and it is as well to have a drawn bolt between one and any mischief that may be about .
a deal of people , miss , are for trusting all to providence ; but i say providence will not dispense with the means , though he often blesses them when they are used discreetly . "
and here she closed her harangue : a long one for her , and uttered with the demureness of a quakeress .
i still stood absolutely dumfoundered at what appeared to me her miraculous self-possession and most inscrutable hypocrisy , when the cook entered .
" mrs. poole , " said she , addressing grace , " the servants ' dinner will soon be ready : will you come down ? "
" no ; just put my pint of porter and bit of pudding on a tray , and i 'll carry it upstairs . "
" you 'll have some meat ? "
" just a morsel , and a taste of cheese , that 's all . "
" and the sago ? " " never mind it at present : i shall be coming down before teatime : i 'll make it myself . "
the cook here turned to me , saying that mrs. fairfax was waiting for me : so i departed .
i hardly heard mrs. fairfax 's account of the curtain conflagration during dinner , so much was i occupied in puzzling my brains over the enigmatical character of grace poole , and still more in pondering the problem of her position at thornfield and questioning why she had not been given into custody that morning , or , at the very least , dismissed from her master 's service .
he had almost as much as declared his conviction of her criminality last night : what mysterious cause withheld him from accusing her ?
why had he enjoined me , too , to secrecy ?
it was strange : a bold , vindictive , and haughty gentleman seemed somehow in the power of one of the meanest of his dependants ; so much in her power , that even when she lifted her hand against his life , he dared not openly charge her with the attempt , much less punish her for it .
had grace been young and handsome , i should have been tempted to think that tenderer feelings than prudence or fear influenced mr. rochester in her behalf ; but , hard-favoured and matronly as she was , the idea could not be admitted .
" yet , " i reflected , " she has been young once ; her youth would be contemporary with her master 's : mrs. fairfax told me once , she had lived here many years . i don 't think she can ever have been pretty ; but , for aught i know , she may possess originality and strength of character to compensate for the want of personal advantages .
mr. rochester is an amateur of the decided and eccentric : grace is eccentric at least .
what if a former caprice ( a freak very possible to a nature so sudden and headstrong as his ) has delivered him into her power , and she now exercises over his actions a secret influence , the result of his own indiscretion , which he cannot shake off , and dare not disregard ? "
but , having reached this point of conjecture , mrs. poole 's square , flat figure , and uncomely , dry , even coarse face , recurred so distinctly to my mind 's eye , that i thought , " no ; impossible ! my supposition cannot be correct .
yet , " suggested the secret voice which talks to us in our own hearts , " you are not beautiful either , and perhaps mr. rochester approves you : at any rate , you have often felt as if he did ; and last night--remember his words ; remember his look ; remember his voice ! "
i well remembered all ; language , glance , and tone seemed at the moment vividly renewed .
i was now in the schoolroom ; adele was drawing ; i bent over her and directed her pencil .
she looked up with a sort of start . " qu ' avez-vous , mademoiselle ? " said she .
" vos doigts tremblent comme la feuille , et vos joues sont rouges : mais , rouges comme des cerises ! "
" i am hot , adele , with stooping ! "
she went on sketching ; i went on thinking .
i hastened to drive from my mind the hateful notion i had been conceiving respecting grace poole ; it disgusted me .
i compared myself with her , and found we were different .
bessie leaven had said i was quite a lady ; and she spoke truth--i was a lady .
and now i looked much better than i did when bessie saw me ; i had more colour and more flesh , more life , more vivacity , because i had brighter hopes and keener enjoyments .
" evening approaches , " said i , as i looked towards the window .
" i have never heard mr. rochester 's voice or step in the house to-day ; but surely i shall see him before night : i feared the meeting in the morning ; now i desire it , because expectation has been so long baffled that it is grown impatient . "
when dusk actually closed , and when adele left me to go and play in the nursery with sophie , i did most keenly desire it .
i listened for the bell to ring below ; i listened for leah coming up with a message ; i fancied sometimes i heard mr. rochester 's own tread , and i turned to the door , expecting it to open and admit him .
still it was not late ; he often sent for me at seven and eight o 'clock , and it was yet but six . surely i should not be wholly disappointed to-night , when i had so many things to say to him !
i wanted again to introduce the subject of grace poole , and to hear what he would answer ; i wanted to ask him plainly if he really believed it was she who had made last night 's hideous attempt ; and if so , why he kept her wickedness a secret .
it little mattered whether my curiosity irritated him ; i knew the pleasure of vexing and soothing him by turns ; it was one i chiefly delighted in , and a sure instinct always prevented me from going too far ; beyond the verge of provocation i never ventured ; on the extreme brink i liked well to try my skill .
retaining every minute form of respect , every propriety of my station , i could still meet him in argument without fear or uneasy restraint ; this suited both him and me .
a tread creaked on the stairs at last . leah made her appearance ; but it was only to intimate that tea was ready in mrs. fairfax 's room .
" you must want your tea , " said the good lady , as i joined her ; " you ate so little at dinner .
i am afraid , " she continued , " you are not well to- day : you look flushed and feverish . "
" oh , quite well ! i never felt better . "
" then you must prove it by evincing a good appetite ; will you fill the teapot while i knit off this needle ? "
having completed her task , she rose to draw down the blind , which she had hitherto kept up , by way , i suppose , of making the most of daylight , though dusk was now fast deepening into total obscurity .
" it is fair to-night , " said she , as she looked through the panes , " though not starlight ; mr. rochester has , on the whole , had a favourable day for his journey . " " journey ! --is mr. rochester gone anywhere ?
i did not know he was out . "
" oh , he set off the moment he had breakfasted ! he is gone to the leas , mr. eshton 's place , ten miles on the other side millcote .
i believe there is quite a party assembled there ; lord ingram , sir george lynn , colonel dent , and others . "
" do you expect him back to-night ? "
" no--nor to-morrow either ; i should think he is very likely to stay a week or more : when these fine , fashionable people get together , they are so surrounded by elegance and gaiety , so well provided with all that can please and entertain , they are in no hurry to separate .
gentlemen especially are often in request on such occasions ; and mr. rochester is so talented and so lively in society , that i believe he is a general favourite : the ladies are very fond of him ; though you would not think his appearance calculated to recommend him particularly in their eyes : but i suppose his acquirements and abilities , perhaps his wealth and good blood , make amends for any little fault of look . "
" are there ladies at the leas ? "
" there are mrs. eshton and her three daughters--very elegant young ladies indeed ; and there are the honourable blanche and mary ingram , most beautiful women , i suppose : indeed i have seen blanche , six or seven years since , when she was a girl of eighteen . she came here to a christmas ball and party mr. rochester gave .
you should have seen the dining-room that day--how richly it was decorated , how brilliantly lit up !
i should think there were fifty ladies and gentlemen present--all of the first county families ; and miss ingram was considered the belle of the evening . "
" you saw her , you say , mrs. fairfax : what was she like ? "
" yes , i saw her . the dining-room doors were thrown open ; and , as it was christmas-time , the servants were allowed to assemble in the hall , to hear some of the ladies sing and play . mr. rochester would have me to come in , and i sat down in a quiet corner and watched them .
i never saw a more splendid scene : the ladies were magnificently dressed ; most of them--at least most of the younger ones--looked handsome ; but miss ingram was certainly the queen . "
" and what was she like ? "
" tall , fine bust , sloping shoulders ; long , graceful neck : olive complexion , dark and clear ; noble features ; eyes rather like mr. rochester 's : large and black , and as brilliant as her jewels .
and then she had such a fine head of hair ; raven-black and so becomingly arranged : a crown of thick plaits behind , and in front the longest , the glossiest curls i ever saw .
she was dressed in pure white ; an amber-coloured scarf was passed over her shoulder and across her breast , tied at the side , and descending in long , fringed ends below her knee .
she wore an amber-coloured flower , too , in her hair : it contrasted well with the jetty mass of her curls . "
" she was greatly admired , of course ? "
" yes , indeed : and not only for her beauty , but for her accomplishments .
" mr. rochester ? i was not aware he could sing . "
" oh ! he has a fine bass voice , and an excellent taste for music . "
" and miss ingram : what sort of a voice had she ? "
" a very rich and powerful one : she sang delightfully ; it was a treat to listen to her ; --and she played afterwards .
i am no judge of music , but mr. rochester is ; and i heard him say her execution was remarkably good . "
" and this beautiful and accomplished lady , she is not yet married ? "
" it appears not : i fancy neither she nor her sister have very large fortunes .
" but i wonder no wealthy nobleman or gentleman has taken a fancy to her : mr. rochester , for instance . he is rich , is he not ? "
" oh ! yes . but you see there is a considerable difference in age : mr. rochester is nearly forty ; she is but twenty-five . "
" what of that ? more unequal matches are made every day . "
" true : yet i should scarcely fancy mr. rochester would entertain an idea of the sort .
but you eat nothing : you have scarcely tasted since you began tea . "
" no : i am too thirsty to eat . will you let me have another cup ? "
i was about again to revert to the probability of a union between mr. rochester and the beautiful blanche ; but adele came in , and the conversation was turned into another channel .
when once more alone , i reviewed the information i had got ; looked into my heart , examined its thoughts and feelings , and endeavoured to bring back with a strict hand such as had been straying through imagination 's boundless and trackless waste , into the safe fold of common sense .
arraigned at my own bar , memory having given her evidence of the hopes , wishes , sentiments i had been cherishing since last night--of the general state of mind in which i had indulged for nearly a fortnight past ; reason having come forward and told , in her own quiet way a plain , unvarnished tale , showing how i had rejected the real , and rabidly devoured the ideal ; --i pronounced judgment to this effect : --
that a greater fool than jane eyre had never breathed the breath of life ; that a more fantastic idiot had never surfeited herself on sweet lies , and swallowed poison as if it were nectar .
" _ you _ , " i said , " a favourite with mr. rochester ? _ you _ gifted with the power of pleasing him ? _ you _ of importance to him in any way ?
go ! your folly sickens me .
and you have derived pleasure from occasional tokens of preference--equivocal tokens shown by a gentleman of family and a man of the world to a dependent and a novice .
how dared you ?
poor stupid dupe ! --could not even self-interest make you wiser ?
you repeated to yourself this morning the brief scene of last night ? --cover your face and be ashamed !
he said something in praise of your eyes , did he ?
blind puppy !
open their bleared lids and look on your own accursed senselessness !
it does good to no woman to be flattered by her superior , who cannot possibly intend to marry her ; and it is madness in all women to let a secret love kindle within them , which , if unreturned and unknown , must devour the life that feeds it ; and , if discovered and responded to , must lead , _ ignis-fatus _ -like , into miry wilds whence there is no extrication .
" listen , then , jane eyre , to your sentence : to-morrow , place the glass before you , and draw in chalk your own picture , faithfully , without softening one defect ; omit no harsh line , smooth away no displeasing irregularity ; write under it , ' portrait of a governess , disconnected , poor , and plain . '
" afterwards , take a piece of smooth ivory--you have one prepared in your drawing-box : take your palette , mix your freshest , finest , clearest tints ; choose your most delicate camel-hair pencils ; delineate carefully the loveliest face you can imagine ; paint it in your softest shades and sweetest lines , according to the description given by mrs. fairfax of blanche ingram ; remember the raven ringlets , the oriental eye ; --what ! you revert to mr. rochester as a model ! order !
no snivel ! --no sentiment ! --no regret ! i will endure only sense and resolution .
recall the august yet harmonious lineaments , the grecian neck and bust ; let the round and dazzling arm be visible , and the delicate hand ; omit neither diamond ring nor gold bracelet ; portray faithfully the attire , aerial lace and glistening satin , graceful scarf and golden rose ; call it ' blanche , an accomplished lady of rank . '
" whenever , in future , you should chance to fancy mr. rochester thinks well of you , take out these two pictures and compare them : say , ' mr. rochester might probably win that noble lady 's love , if he chose to strive for it ; is it likely he would waste a serious thought on this indigent and insignificant plebeian ? ' "
" i 'll do it , " i resolved : and having framed this determination , i grew calm , and fell asleep .
i kept my word . an hour or two sufficed to sketch my own portrait in crayons ; and in less than a fortnight i had completed an ivory miniature of an imaginary blanche ingram . it looked a lovely face enough , and when compared with the real head in chalk , the contrast was as great as self- control could desire .
i derived benefit from the task : it had kept my head and hands employed , and had given force and fixedness to the new impressions i wished to stamp indelibly on my heart .
ere long , i had reason to congratulate myself on the course of wholesome discipline to which i had thus forced my feelings to submit .
thanks to it , i was able to meet subsequent occurrences with a decent calm , which , had they found me unprepared , i should probably have been unequal to maintain , even externally .
chapter xvii
a week passed , and no news arrived of mr. rochester : ten days , and still he did not come .
mrs. fairfax said she should not be surprised if he were to go straight from the leas to london , and thence to the continent , and not show his face again at thornfield for a year to come ; he had not unfrequently quitted it in a manner quite as abrupt and unexpected .
when i heard this , i was beginning to feel a strange chill and failing at the heart .
i was actually permitting myself to experience a sickening sense of disappointment ; but rallying my wits , and recollecting my principles , i at once called my sensations to order ; and it was wonderful how i got over the temporary blunder--how i cleared up the mistake of supposing mr. rochester 's movements a matter in which i had any cause to take a vital interest .
not that i humbled myself by a slavish notion of inferiority : on the contrary , i just said-- " you have nothing to do with the master of thornfield , further than to receive the salary he gives you for teaching his protegee , and to be grateful for such respectful and kind treatment as , if you do your duty , you have a right to expect at his hands .
be sure that is the only tie he seriously acknowledges between you and him ; so don 't make him the object of your fine feelings , your raptures , agonies , and so forth .
he is not of your order : keep to your caste , and be too self-respecting to lavish the love of the whole heart , soul , and strength , where such a gift is not wanted and would be despised . "
i went on with my day 's business tranquilly ; but ever and anon vague suggestions kept wandering across my brain of reasons why i should quit thornfield ; and i kept involuntarily framing advertisements and pondering conjectures about new situations : these thoughts i did not think to check ; they might germinate and bear fruit if they could .
mr. rochester had been absent upwards of a fortnight , when the post brought mrs. fairfax a letter .
" it is from the master , " said she , as she looked at the direction . " now i suppose we shall know whether we are to expect his return or not . "
and while she broke the seal and perused the document , i went on taking my coffee ( we were at breakfast ) : it was hot , and i attributed to that circumstance a fiery glow which suddenly rose to my face . why my hand shook , and why i involuntarily spilt half the contents of my cup into my saucer , i did not choose to consider .
" well , i sometimes think we are too quiet ; but we run a chance of being busy enough now : for a little while at least , " said mrs. fairfax , still holding the note before her spectacles .
ere i permitted myself to request an explanation , i tied the string of adele 's pinafore , which happened to be loose : having helped her also to another bun and refilled her mug with milk , i said , nonchalantly--
" mr. rochester is not likely to return soon , i suppose ? "
" indeed he is--in three days , he says : that will be next thursday ; and not alone either .
i don 't know how many of the fine people at the leas are coming with him : he sends directions for all the best bedrooms to be prepared ; and the library and drawing-rooms are to be cleaned out ; i am to get more kitchen hands from the george inn , at millcote , and from wherever else i can ; and the ladies will bring their maids and the gentlemen their valets : so we shall have a full house of it . "
and mrs. fairfax swallowed her breakfast and hastened away to commence operations .
the three days were , as she had foretold , busy enough .
i had thought all the rooms at thornfield beautifully clean and well arranged ; but it appears i was mistaken .
three women were got to help ; and such scrubbing , such brushing , such washing of paint and beating of carpets , such taking down and putting up of pictures , such polishing of mirrors and lustres , such lighting of fires in bedrooms , such airing of sheets and feather-beds on hearths , i never beheld , either before or since .
adele ran quite wild in the midst of it : the preparations for company and the prospect of their arrival , seemed to throw her into ecstasies .
she would have sophie to look over all her " toilettes , " as she called frocks ; to furbish up any that were " _ passees _ , " and to air and arrange the new . for herself , she did nothing but caper about in the front chambers , jump on and off the bedsteads , and lie on the mattresses and piled-up bolsters and pillows before the enormous fires roaring in the chimneys .
from school duties she was exonerated : mrs. fairfax had pressed me into her service , and i was all day in the storeroom , helping ( or hindering ) her and the cook ; learning to make custards and cheese-cakes and french pastry , to truss game and garnish desert-dishes .
the party were expected to arrive on thursday afternoon , in time for dinner at six .
still , now and then , i received a damping check to my cheerfulness ; and was , in spite of myself , thrown back on the region of doubts and portents , and dark conjectures . this was when i chanced to see the third-storey staircase door ( which of late had always been kept locked ) open slowly , and give passage to the form of grace poole , in prim cap , white apron , and handkerchief ; when i watched her glide along the gallery , her quiet tread muffled in a list slipper ; when i saw her look into the bustling , topsy-turvy bedrooms , --just say a word , perhaps , to the charwoman about the proper way to polish a grate , or clean a marble mantelpiece , or take stains from papered walls , and then pass on .
only one hour in the twenty-four did she pass with her fellow-servants below ; all the rest of her time was spent in some low-ceiled , oaken chamber of the second storey : there she sat and sewed--and probably laughed drearily to herself , --as companionless as a prisoner in his dungeon .
the strangest thing of all was , that not a soul in the house , except me , noticed her habits , or seemed to marvel at them : no one discussed her position or employment ; no one pitied her solitude or isolation .
i once , indeed , overheard part of a dialogue between leah and one of the charwomen , of which grace formed the subject .
leah had been saying something i had not caught , and the charwoman remarked-- " she gets good wages , i guess ? "
" yes , " said leah ; " i wish i had as good ; not that mine are to complain of , --there 's no stinginess at thornfield ; but they 're not one fifth of the sum mrs. poole receives .
and she is laying by : she goes every quarter to the bank at millcote .
i should not wonder but she has saved enough to keep her independent if she liked to leave ; but i suppose she 's got used to the place ; and then she 's not forty yet , and strong and able for anything . it is too soon for her to give up business . "
" she is a good hand , i daresay , " said the charwoman .
" ah ! --she understands what she has to do , --nobody better , " rejoined leah significantly ; " and it is not every one could fill her shoes--not for all the money she gets . "
" that it is not ! " was the reply .
" i wonder whether the master-- "
the charwoman was going on ; but here leah turned and perceived me , and she instantly gave her companion a nudge .
" doesn 't she know ? " i heard the woman whisper .
leah shook her head , and the conversation was of course dropped . all i had gathered from it amounted to this , --that there was a mystery at thornfield ; and that from participation in that mystery i was purposely excluded .
thursday came : all work had been completed the previous evening ; carpets were laid down , bed-hangings festooned , radiant white counterpanes spread , toilet tables arranged , furniture rubbed , flowers piled in vases : both chambers and saloons looked as fresh and bright as hands could make them .
the hall , too , was scoured ; and the great carved clock , as well as the steps and banisters of the staircase , were polished to the brightness of glass ; in the dining-room , the sideboard flashed resplendent with plate ; in the drawing-room and boudoir , vases of exotics bloomed on all sides .
afternoon arrived : mrs. fairfax assumed her best black satin gown , her gloves , and her gold watch ; for it was her part to receive the company , --to conduct the ladies to their rooms , & c .
adele , too , would be dressed : though i thought she had little chance of being introduced to the party that day at least .
however , to please her , i allowed sophie to apparel her in one of her short , full muslin frocks . for myself , i had no need to make any change ; i should not be called upon to quit my sanctum of the schoolroom ; for a sanctum it was now become to me , -- " a very pleasant refuge in time of trouble . "
it had been a mild , serene spring day--one of those days which , towards the end of march or the beginning of april , rise shining over the earth as heralds of summer . it was drawing to an end now ; but the evening was even warm , and i sat at work in the schoolroom with the window open .
" it gets late , " said mrs. fairfax , entering in rustling state . " i am glad i ordered dinner an hour after the time mr. rochester mentioned ; for it is past six now .
i have sent john down to the gates to see if there is anything on the road : one can see a long way from thence in the direction of millcote . "
she went to the window .
" here he is ! " said she .
" well , john " ( leaning out ) , " any news ? "
" they 're coming , ma 'am , " was the answer . " they 'll be here in ten minutes . "
adele flew to the window . i followed , taking care to stand on one side , so that , screened by the curtain , i could see without being seen .
the ten minutes john had given seemed very long , but at last wheels were heard ; four equestrians galloped up the drive , and after them came two open carriages .
fluttering veils and waving plumes filled the vehicles ; two of the cavaliers were young , dashing-looking gentlemen ; the third was mr. rochester , on his black horse , mesrour , pilot bounding before him ; at his side rode a lady , and he and she were the first of the party .
her purple riding-habit almost swept the ground , her veil streamed long on the breeze ; mingling with its transparent folds , and gleaming through them , shone rich raven ringlets .
" miss ingram ! " exclaimed mrs. fairfax , and away she hurried to her post below .
the cavalcade , following the sweep of the drive , quickly turned the angle of the house , and i lost sight of it .
adele now petitioned to go down ; but i took her on my knee , and gave her to understand that she must not on any account think of venturing in sight of the ladies , either now or at any other time , unless expressly sent for : that mr. rochester would be very angry , & c .
" some natural tears she shed " on being told this ; but as i began to look very grave , she consented at last to wipe them .
a joyous stir was now audible in the hall : gentlemen 's deep tones and ladies ' silvery accents blent harmoniously together , and distinguishable above all , though not loud , was the sonorous voice of the master of thornfield hall , welcoming his fair and gallant guests under its roof .
then light steps ascended the stairs ; and there was a tripping through the gallery , and soft cheerful laughs , and opening and closing doors , and , for a time , a hush .
" elles changent de toilettes , " said adele ; who , listening attentively , had followed every movement ; and she sighed .
" chez maman , " said she , " quand il y avait du monde , je le suivais partout , au salon et a leurs chambres ; souvent je regardais les femmes de chambre coiffer et habiller les dames , et c 'etait si amusant : comme cela on apprend . "
" don 't you feel hungry , adele ? "
" mais oui , mademoiselle : voila cinq ou six heures que nous n 'avons pas mange . "
" well now , while the ladies are in their rooms , i will venture down and get you something to eat . "
and issuing from my asylum with precaution , i sought a back-stairs which conducted directly to the kitchen .
all in that region was fire and commotion ; the soup and fish were in the last stage of projection , and the cook hung over her crucibles in a frame of mind and body threatening spontaneous combustion . in the servants ' hall two coachmen and three gentlemen 's gentlemen stood or sat round the fire ; the abigails , i suppose , were upstairs with their mistresses ; the new servants , that had been hired from millcote , were bustling about everywhere .
threading this chaos , i at last reached the larder ; there i took possession of a cold chicken , a roll of bread , some tarts , a plate or two and a knife and fork : with this booty i made a hasty retreat .
i had regained the gallery , and was just shutting the back-door behind me , when an accelerated hum warned me that the ladies were about to issue from their chambers . i could not proceed to the schoolroom without passing some of their doors , and running the risk of being surprised with my cargo of victualage ; so i stood still at this end , which , being windowless , was dark : quite dark now , for the sun was set and twilight gathering . presently the chambers gave up their fair tenants one after another : each came out gaily and airily , with dress that gleamed lustrous through the dusk . for a moment they stood grouped together at the other extremity of the gallery , conversing in a key of sweet subdued vivacity : they then descended the staircase almost as noiselessly as a bright mist rolls down a hill .
their collective appearance had left on me an impression of high- born elegance , such as i had never before received .
i found adele peeping through the schoolroom door , which she held ajar .
" what beautiful ladies ! " cried she in english . " oh , i wish i might go to them !
do you think mr. rochester will send for us by-and-bye , after dinner ? "
" no , indeed , i don 't ; mr. rochester has something else to think about . never mind the ladies to-night ; perhaps you will see them to-morrow : here is your dinner . "
she was really hungry , so the chicken and tarts served to divert her attention for a time .
it was well i secured this forage , or both she , i , and sophie , to whom i conveyed a share of our repast , would have run a chance of getting no dinner at all : every one downstairs was too much engaged to think of us .
the dessert was not carried out till after nine and at ten footmen were still running to and fro with trays and coffee- cups .
i allowed adele to sit up much later than usual ; for she declared she could not possibly go to sleep while the doors kept opening and shutting below , and people bustling about .
besides , she added , a message might possibly come from mr. rochester when she was undressed ; " et alors quel dommage ! "
i told her stories as long as she would listen to them ; and then for a change i took her out into the gallery . the hall lamp was now lit , and it amused her to look over the balustrade and watch the servants passing backwards and forwards .
when the evening was far advanced , a sound of music issued from the drawing-room , whither the piano had been removed ; adele and i sat down on the top step of the stairs to listen .
presently a voice blent with the rich tones of the instrument ; it was a lady who sang , and very sweet her notes were .
the solo over , a duet followed , and then a glee : a joyous conversational murmur filled up the intervals .
i listened long : suddenly i discovered that my ear was wholly intent on analysing the mingled sounds , and trying to discriminate amidst the confusion of accents those of mr. rochester ; and when it caught them , which it soon did , it found a further task in framing the tones , rendered by distance inarticulate , into words .
the clock struck eleven . i looked at adele , whose head leant against my shoulder ; her eyes were waxing heavy , so i took her up in my arms and carried her off to bed .
it was near one before the gentlemen and ladies sought their chambers .
the next day was as fine as its predecessor : it was devoted by the party to an excursion to some site in the neighbourhood .
they set out early in the forenoon , some on horseback , the rest in carriages ; i witnessed both the departure and the return . miss ingram , as before , was the only lady equestrian ; and , as before , mr. rochester galloped at her side ; the two rode a little apart from the rest .
i pointed out this circumstance to mrs. fairfax , who was standing at the window with me--
" you said it was not likely they should think of being married , " said i , " but you see mr. rochester evidently prefers her to any of the other ladies . "
" yes , i daresay : no doubt he admires her . "
" and she him , " i added ; " look how she leans her head towards him as if she were conversing confidentially ; i wish i could see her face ; i have never had a glimpse of it yet . "
" you will see her this evening , " answered mrs. fairfax .
" i happened to remark to mr. rochester how much adele wished to be introduced to the ladies , and he said : ' oh ! let her come into the drawing-room after dinner ; and request miss eyre to accompany her . ' "
" yes ; he said that from mere politeness : i need not go , i am sure , " i answered .
" well , i observed to him that as you were unused to company , i did not think you would like appearing before so gay a party--all strangers ; and he replied , in his quick way-- ' nonsense !
if she objects , tell her it is my particular wish ; and if she resists , say i shall come and fetch her in case of contumacy . ' "
" i will not give him that trouble , " i answered . " i will go , if no better may be ; but i don 't like it .
shall you be there , mrs. fairfax ? "
" no ; i pleaded off , and he admitted my plea .
i 'll tell you how to manage so as to avoid the embarrassment of making a formal entrance , which is the most disagreeable part of the business .
you must go into the drawing- room while it is empty , before the ladies leave the dinner-table ; choose your seat in any quiet nook you like ; you need not stay long after the gentlemen come in , unless you please : just let mr. rochester see you are there and then slip away--nobody will notice you . "
" will these people remain long , do you think ? "
" perhaps two or three weeks , certainly not more .
after the easter recess , sir george lynn , who was lately elected member for millcote , will have to go up to town and take his seat ; i daresay mr. rochester will accompany him : it surprises me that he has already made so protracted a stay at thornfield . "
it was with some trepidation that i perceived the hour approach when i was to repair with my charge to the drawing-room .
adele had been in a state of ecstasy all day , after hearing she was to be presented to the ladies in the evening ; and it was not till sophie commenced the operation of dressing her that she sobered down .
then the importance of the process quickly steadied her , and by the time she had her curls arranged in well-smoothed , drooping clusters , her pink satin frock put on , her long sash tied , and her lace mittens adjusted , she looked as grave as any judge .
no need to warn her not to disarrange her attire : when she was dressed , she sat demurely down in her little chair , taking care previously to lift up the satin skirt for fear she should crease it , and assured me she would not stir thence till i was ready .
this i quickly was : my best dress ( the silver-grey one , purchased for miss temple 's wedding , and never worn since ) was soon put on ; my hair was soon smoothed ; my sole ornament , the pearl brooch , soon assumed .
we descended . fortunately there was another entrance to the drawing-room than that through the saloon where they were all seated at dinner . we found the apartment vacant ; a large fire burning silently on the marble hearth , and wax candles shining in bright solitude , amid the exquisite flowers with which the tables were adorned .
the crimson curtain hung before the arch : slight as was the separation this drapery formed from the party in the adjoining saloon , they spoke in so low a key that nothing of their conversation could be distinguished beyond a soothing murmur .
adele , who appeared to be still under the influence of a most solemnising impression , sat down , without a word , on the footstool i pointed out to her .
i retired to a window-seat , and taking a book from a table near , endeavoured to read .
adele brought her stool to my feet ; ere long she touched my knee .
" what is it , adele ? "
" est-ce que je ne puis pas prendrie une seule de ces fleurs magnifiques , mademoiselle ? seulement pour completer ma toilette . "
" you think too much of your ' toilette , ' adele : but you may have a flower . " and i took a rose from a vase and fastened it in her sash .
she sighed a sigh of ineffable satisfaction , as if her cup of happiness were now full .
i turned my face away to conceal a smile i could not suppress : there was something ludicrous as well as painful in the little parisienne 's earnest and innate devotion to matters of dress .
a soft sound of rising now became audible ; the curtain was swept back from the arch ; through it appeared the dining-room , with its lit lustre pouring down light on the silver and glass of a magnificent dessert-service covering a long table ; a band of ladies stood in the opening ; they entered , and the curtain fell behind them .
there were but eight ; yet , somehow , as they flocked in , they gave the impression of a much larger number .
some of them were very tall ; many were dressed in white ; and all had a sweeping amplitude of array that seemed to magnify their persons as a mist magnifies the moon .
i rose and curtseyed to them : one or two bent their heads in return , the others only stared at me .
they dispersed about the room , reminding me , by the lightness and buoyancy of their movements , of a flock of white plumy birds . some of them threw themselves in half-reclining positions on the sofas and ottomans : some bent over the tables and examined the flowers and books : the rest gathered in a group round the fire : all talked in a low but clear tone which seemed habitual to them .
i knew their names afterwards , and may as well mention them now .
first , there was mrs. eshton and two of her daughters .
she had evidently been a handsome woman , and was well preserved still .
of her daughters , the eldest , amy , was rather little : naive , and child-like in face and manner , and piquant in form ; her white muslin dress and blue sash became her well .
the second , louisa , was taller and more elegant in figure ; with a very pretty face , of that order the french term _ minois chiffone _ : both sisters were fair as lilies .
lady lynn was a large and stout personage of about forty , very erect , very haughty-looking , richly dressed in a satin robe of changeful sheen : her dark hair shone glossily under the shade of an azure plume , and within the circlet of a band of gems .
mrs. colonel dent was less showy ; but , i thought , more lady-like .
she had a slight figure , a pale , gentle face , and fair hair . her black satin dress , her scarf of rich foreign lace , and her pearl ornaments , pleased me better than the rainbow radiance of the titled dame .
but the three most distinguished--partly , perhaps , because the tallest figures of the band--were the dowager lady ingram and her daughters , blanche and mary . they were all three of the loftiest stature of women .
the dowager might be between forty and fifty : her shape was still fine ; her hair ( by candle-light at least ) still black ; her teeth , too , were still apparently perfect .
most people would have termed her a splendid woman of her age : and so she was , no doubt , physically speaking ; but then there was an expression of almost insupportable haughtiness in her bearing and countenance .
she had roman features and a double chin , disappearing into a throat like a pillar : these features appeared to me not only inflated and darkened , but even furrowed with pride ; and the chin was sustained by the same principle , in a position of almost preternatural erectness .
she had , likewise , a fierce and a hard eye : it reminded me of mrs. reed 's ; she mouthed her words in speaking ; her voice was deep , its inflections very pompous , very dogmatical , --very intolerable , in short .
a crimson velvet robe , and a shawl turban of some gold-wrought indian fabric , invested her ( i suppose she thought ) with a truly imperial dignity .
blanche and mary were of equal stature , --straight and tall as poplars . mary was too slim for her height , but blanche was moulded like a dian .
i regarded her , of course , with special interest . first , i wished to see whether her appearance accorded with mrs. fairfax 's description ; secondly , whether it at all resembled the fancy miniature i had painted of her ; and thirdly--it will out ! --whether it were such as i should fancy likely to suit mr. rochester 's taste .
as far as person went , she answered point for point , both to my picture and mrs. fairfax 's description . the noble bust , the sloping shoulders , the graceful neck , the dark eyes and black ringlets were all there ; --but her face ?
her face was like her mother 's ; a youthful unfurrowed likeness : the same low brow , the same high features , the same pride . it was not , however , so saturnine a pride ! she laughed continually ; her laugh was satirical , and so was the habitual expression of her arched and haughty lip .
genius is said to be self-conscious . i cannot tell whether miss ingram was a genius , but she was self-conscious--remarkably self-conscious indeed .
she entered into a discourse on botany with the gentle mrs. dent . it seemed mrs. dent had not studied that science : though , as she said , she liked flowers , " especially wild ones ; " miss ingram had , and she ran over its vocabulary with an air .
i presently perceived she was ( what is vernacularly termed ) _ trailing _ mrs. dent ; that is , playing on her ignorance--her _ trail _ might be clever , but it was decidedly not good- natured .
she played : her execution was brilliant ; she sang : her voice was fine ; she talked french apart to her mamma ; and she talked it well , with fluency and with a good accent .
mary had a milder and more open countenance than blanche ; softer features too , and a skin some shades fairer ( miss ingram was dark as a spaniard ) --but mary was deficient in life : her face lacked expression , her eye lustre ; she had nothing to say , and having once taken her seat , remained fixed like a statue in its niche .
the sisters were both attired in spotless white .
and did i now think miss ingram such a choice as mr. rochester would be likely to make ?
i could not tell--i did not know his taste in female beauty .
if he liked the majestic , she was the very type of majesty : then she was accomplished , sprightly . most gentlemen would admire her , i thought ; and that he _ did _ admire her , i already seemed to have obtained proof : to remove the last shade of doubt , it remained but to see them together .
you are not to suppose , reader , that adele has all this time been sitting motionless on the stool at my feet : no ; when the ladies entered , she rose , advanced to meet them , made a stately reverence , and said with gravity-- " bon jour , mesdames . "
and miss ingram had looked down at her with a mocking air , and exclaimed , " oh , what a little puppet ! "
lady lynn had remarked , " it is mr. rochester 's ward , i suppose--the little french girl he was speaking of . "
mrs. dent had kindly taken her hand , and given her a kiss .
amy and louisa eshton had cried out simultaneously-- " what a love of a child ! "
and then they had called her to a sofa , where she now sat , ensconced between them , chattering alternately in french and broken english ; absorbing not only the young ladies ' attention , but that of mrs. eshton and lady lynn , and getting spoilt to her heart 's content .
at last coffee is brought in , and the gentlemen are summoned .
i sit in the shade--if any shade there be in this brilliantly-lit apartment ; the window-curtain half hides me .
again the arch yawns ; they come .
the collective appearance of the gentlemen , like that of the ladies , is very imposing : they are all costumed in black ; most of them are tall , some young .
henry and frederick lynn are very dashing sparks indeed ; and colonel dent is a fine soldierly man .
mr. eshton , the magistrate of the district , is gentleman-like : his hair is quite white , his eyebrows and whiskers still dark , which gives him something of the appearance of a " pere noble de theatre . "
lord ingram , like his sisters , is very tall ; like them , also , he is handsome ; but he shares mary 's apathetic and listless look : he seems to have more length of limb than vivacity of blood or vigour of brain .
and where is mr. rochester ?
he comes in last : i am not looking at the arch , yet i see him enter .
i try to concentrate my attention on those netting-needles , on the meshes of the purse i am forming--i wish to think only of the work i have in my hands , to see only the silver beads and silk threads that lie in my lap ; whereas , i distinctly behold his figure , and i inevitably recall the moment when i last saw it ; just after i had rendered him , what he deemed , an essential service , and he , holding my hand , and looking down on my face , surveyed me with eyes that revealed a heart full and eager to overflow ; in whose emotions i had a part .
how near had i approached him at that moment !
what had occurred since , calculated to change his and my relative positions ?
yet now , how distant , how far estranged we were ! so far estranged , that i did not expect him to come and speak to me . i did not wonder , when , without looking at me , he took a seat at the other side of the room , and began conversing with some of the ladies .
no sooner did i see that his attention was riveted on them , and that i might gaze without being observed , than my eyes were drawn involuntarily to his face ; i could not keep their lids under control : they would rise , and the irids would fix on him . i looked , and had an acute pleasure in looking , --a precious yet poignant pleasure ; pure gold , with a steely point of agony : a pleasure like what the thirst-perishing man might feel who knows the well to which he has crept is poisoned , yet stoops and drinks divine draughts nevertheless .
most true is it that " beauty is in the eye of the gazer . "
my master 's colourless , olive face , square , massive brow , broad and jetty eyebrows , deep eyes , strong features , firm , grim mouth , --all energy , decision , will , --were not beautiful , according to rule ; but they were more than beautiful to me ; they were full of an interest , an influence that quite mastered me , --that took my feelings from my own power and fettered them in his .
i had not intended to love him ; the reader knows i had wrought hard to extirpate from my soul the germs of love there detected ; and now , at the first renewed view of him , they spontaneously arrived , green and strong !
he made me love him without looking at me .
i compared him with his guests . what was the gallant grace of the lynns , the languid elegance of lord ingram , --even the military distinction of colonel dent , contrasted with his look of native pith and genuine power ?
i had no sympathy in their appearance , their expression : yet i could imagine that most observers would call them attractive , handsome , imposing ; while they would pronounce mr. rochester at once harsh-featured and melancholy-looking .
i saw them smile , laugh--it was nothing ; the light of the candles had as much soul in it as their smile ; the tinkle of the bell as much significance as their laugh .
i saw mr. rochester smile : --his stern features softened ; his eye grew both brilliant and gentle , its ray both searching and sweet .
he was talking , at the moment , to louisa and amy eshton . i wondered to see them receive with calm that look which seemed to me so penetrating : i expected their eyes to fall , their colour to rise under it ; yet i was glad when i found they were in no sense moved .
" he is not to them what he is to me , " i thought : " he is not of their kind .
did i say , a few days since , that i had nothing to do with him but to receive my salary at his hands ? did i forbid myself to think of him in any other light than as a paymaster ?
blasphemy against nature ! every good , true , vigorous feeling i have gathers impulsively round him .
i know i must conceal my sentiments : i must smother hope ; i must remember that he cannot care much for me . for when i say that i am of his kind , i do not mean that i have his force to influence , and his spell to attract ; i mean only that i have certain tastes and feelings in common with him .
i must , then , repeat continually that we are for ever sundered : --and yet , while i breathe and think , i must love him . "
coffee is handed .
the ladies , since the gentlemen entered , have become lively as larks ; conversation waxes brisk and merry .
colonel dent and mr. eshton argue on politics ; their wives listen .
the two proud dowagers , lady lynn and lady ingram , confabulate together .
sir george--whom , by-the-bye , i have forgotten to describe , --a very big , and very fresh-looking country gentleman , stands before their sofa , coffee- cup in hand , and occasionally puts in a word .
mr. frederick lynn has taken a seat beside mary ingram , and is showing her the engravings of a splendid volume : she looks , smiles now and then , but apparently says little .
the tall and phlegmatic lord ingram leans with folded arms on the chair-back of the little and lively amy eshton ; she glances up at him , and chatters like a wren : she likes him better than she does mr. rochester .
henry lynn has taken possession of an ottoman at the feet of louisa : adele shares it with him : he is trying to talk french with her , and louisa laughs at his blunders .
with whom will blanche ingram pair ?
she is standing alone at the table , bending gracefully over an album . she seems waiting to be sought ; but she will not wait too long : she herself selects a mate .
mr. rochester , having quitted the eshtons , stands on the hearth as solitary as she stands by the table : she confronts him , taking her station on the opposite side of the mantelpiece .
" mr. rochester , i thought you were not fond of children ? "
" nor am i. "
" then , what induced you to take charge of such a little doll as that ? " ( pointing to adele ) . " where did you pick her up ? " " i did not pick her up ; she was left on my hands . " " you should have sent her to school . "
" i could not afford it : schools are so dear . "
" why , i suppose you have a governess for her : i saw a person with her just now--is she gone ?
oh , no ! there she is still , behind the window- curtain .
you pay her , of course ; i should think it quite as expensive , --more so ; for you have them both to keep in addition . "
i feared--or should i say , hoped ? --the allusion to me would make mr. rochester glance my way ; and i involuntarily shrank farther into the shade : but he never turned his eyes .
" i have not considered the subject , " said he indifferently , looking straight before him . " no , you men never do consider economy and common sense .
you should hear mama on the chapter of governesses : mary and i have had , i should think , a dozen at least in our day ; half of them detestable and the rest ridiculous , and all incubi--were they not , mama ? "
" did you speak , my own ? "
the young lady thus claimed as the dowager 's special property , reiterated her question with an explanation .
" my dearest , don 't mention governesses ; the word makes me nervous .
i have suffered a martyrdom from their incompetency and caprice .
i thank heaven i have now done with them ! "
mrs. dent here bent over to the pious lady and whispered something in her ear ; i suppose , from the answer elicited , it was a reminder that one of the anathematised race was present .
" tant pis ! " said her ladyship , " i hope it may do her good ! "
then , in a lower tone , but still loud enough for me to hear , " i noticed her ; i am a judge of physiognomy , and in hers i see all the faults of her class . "
" what are they , madam ? " inquired mr. rochester aloud .
" i will tell you in your private ear , " replied she , wagging her turban three times with portentous significancy .
" but my curiosity will be past its appetite ; it craves food now . "
" ask blanche ; she is nearer you than i. "
" oh , don 't refer him to me , mama !
i have just one word to say of the whole tribe ; they are a nuisance .
not that i ever suffered much from them ; i took care to turn the tables .
what tricks theodore and i used to play on our miss wilsons , and mrs. greys , and madame jouberts ! mary was always too sleepy to join in a plot with spirit .
the best fun was with madame joubert : miss wilson was a poor sickly thing , lachrymose and low- spirited , not worth the trouble of vanquishing , in short ; and mrs. grey was coarse and insensible ; no blow took effect on her .
but poor madame joubert ! i see her yet in her raging passions , when we had driven her to extremities--spilt our tea , crumbled our bread and butter , tossed our books up to the ceiling , and played a charivari with the ruler and desk , the fender and fire-irons .
theodore , do you remember those merry days ? "
" yaas , to be sure i do , " drawled lord ingram ; " and the poor old stick used to cry out ' oh you villains childs ! ' --and then we sermonised her on the presumption of attempting to teach such clever blades as we were , when she was herself so ignorant . "
" we did ; and , tedo , you know , i helped you in prosecuting ( or persecuting ) your tutor , whey-faced mr. vining--the parson in the pip , as we used to call him .
he and miss wilson took the liberty of falling in love with each other--at least tedo and i thought so ; we surprised sundry tender glances and sighs which we interpreted as tokens of ' la belle passion , ' and i promise you the public soon had the benefit of our discovery ; we employed it as a sort of lever to hoist our dead-weights from the house .
dear mama , there , as soon as she got an inkling of the business , found out that it was of an immoral tendency . did you not , my lady-mother ? "
" certainly , my best .
and i was quite right : depend on that : there are a thousand reasons why liaisons between governesses and tutors should never be tolerated a moment in any well-regulated house ; firstly-- "
" oh , gracious , mama ! spare us the enumeration ! _ au reste _ , we all know them : danger of bad example to innocence of childhood ; distractions and consequent neglect of duty on the part of the attached--mutual alliance and reliance ; confidence thence resulting--insolence accompanying--mutiny and general blow-up .
am i right , baroness ingram , of ingram park ? " " my lily-flower , you are right now , as always . "
" then no more need be said : change the subject . "
amy eshton , not hearing or not heeding this dictum , joined in with her soft , infantine tone : " louisa and i used to quiz our governess too ; but she was such a good creature , she would bear anything : nothing put her out . she was never cross with us ; was she , louisa ? "
" no , never : we might do what we pleased ; ransack her desk and her workbox , and turn her drawers inside out ; and she was so good-natured , she would give us anything we asked for . "
" i suppose , now , " said miss ingram , curling her lip sarcastically , " we shall have an abstract of the memoirs of all the governesses extant : in order to avert such a visitation , i again move the introduction of a new topic .
mr. rochester , do you second my motion ? "
" madam , i support you on this point , as on every other . "
" then on me be the onus of bringing it forward .
signior eduardo , are you in voice to-night ? " " donna bianca , if you command it , i will be . "
" then , signior , i lay on you my sovereign behest to furbish up your lungs and other vocal organs , as they will be wanted on my royal service . "
" who would not be the rizzio of so divine a mary ? "
" it is my opinion the fiddler david must have been an insipid sort of fellow ; i like black bothwell better : to my mind a man is nothing without a spice of the devil in him ; and history may say what it will of james hepburn , but i have a notion , he was just the sort of wild , fierce , bandit hero whom i could have consented to gift with my hand . "
" gentlemen , you hear ! now which of you most resembles bothwell ? " cried mr. rochester .
" i should say the preference lies with you , " responded colonel dent .
" on my honour , i am much obliged to you , " was the reply .
miss ingram , who had now seated herself with proud grace at the piano , spreading out her snowy robes in queenly amplitude , commenced a brilliant prelude ; talking meantime .
she appeared to be on her high horse to-night ; both her words and her air seemed intended to excite not only the admiration , but the amazement of her auditors : she was evidently bent on striking them as something very dashing and daring indeed .
" oh , i am so sick of the young men of the present day ! " exclaimed she , rattling away at the instrument . " poor , puny things , not fit to stir a step beyond papa 's park gates : nor to go even so far without mama 's permission and guardianship ! creatures so absorbed in care about their pretty faces , and their white hands , and their small feet ; as if a man had anything to do with beauty ! as if loveliness were not the special prerogative of woman--her legitimate appanage and heritage !
i grant an ugly _ woman _ is a blot on the fair face of creation ; but as to the _ gentlemen _ , let them be solicitous to possess only strength and valour : let their motto be : --hunt , shoot , and fight : the rest is not worth a fillip .
such should be my device , were i a man . "
" whenever i marry , " she continued after a pause which none interrupted , " i am resolved my husband shall not be a rival , but a foil to me .
i will suffer no competitor near the throne ; i shall exact an undivided homage : his devotions shall not be shared between me and the shape he sees in his mirror .
mr. rochester , now sing , and i will play for you . "
" i am all obedience , " was the response .
" here then is a corsair-song . know that i doat on corsairs ; and for that reason , sing it _ con spirito _ . "
" commands from miss ingram 's lips would put spirit into a mug of milk and water . "
" take care , then : if you don 't please me , i will shame you by showing how such things _ should _ be done . "
" that is offering a premium on incapacity : i shall now endeavour to fail . "
" gardez-vous en bien ! if you err wilfully , i shall devise a proportionate punishment . "
" miss ingram ought to be clement , for she has it in her power to inflict a chastisement beyond mortal endurance . "
" ha ! explain ! " commanded the lady . " pardon me , madam : no need of explanation ; your own fine sense must inform you that one of your frowns would be a sufficient substitute for capital punishment . "
" sing ! " said she , and again touching the piano , she commenced an accompaniment in spirited style .
" now is my time to slip away , " thought i : but the tones that then severed the air arrested me .
mrs. fairfax had said mr. rochester possessed a fine voice : he did--a mellow , powerful bass , into which he threw his own feeling , his own force ; finding a way through the ear to the heart , and there waking sensation strangely .
i waited till the last deep and full vibration had expired--till the tide of talk , checked an instant , had resumed its flow ; i then quitted my sheltered corner and made my exit by the side-door , which was fortunately near .
thence a narrow passage led into the hall : in crossing it , i perceived my sandal was loose ; i stopped to tie it , kneeling down for that purpose on the mat at the foot of the staircase . i heard the dining-room door unclose ; a gentleman came out ; rising hastily , i stood face to face with him : it was mr. rochester .
" how do you do ? " he asked . " i am very well , sir . "
" why did you not come and speak to me in the room ? "
i thought i might have retorted the question on him who put it : but i would not take that freedom .
i answered-- " i did not wish to disturb you , as you seemed engaged , sir . "
" what have you been doing during my absence ? "
" nothing particular ; teaching adele as usual . "
" and getting a good deal paler than you were--as i saw at first sight .
what is the matter ? "
" nothing at all , sir . "
" did you take any cold that night you half drowned me ? "
" not the least . "
" return to the drawing-room : you are deserting too early . "
" i am tired , sir . "
he looked at me for a minute .
" and a little depressed , " he said . " what about ? tell me . "
" nothing--nothing , sir . i am not depressed . "
" but i affirm that you are : so much depressed that a few more words would bring tears to your eyes--indeed , they are there now , shining and swimming ; and a bead has slipped from the lash and fallen on to the flag .
if i had time , and was not in mortal dread of some prating prig of a servant passing , i would know what all this means . well , to-night i excuse you ; but understand that so long as my visitors stay , i expect you to appear in the drawing-room every evening ; it is my wish ; don 't neglect it .
now go , and send sophie for adele .
good-night , my-- " he stopped , bit his lip , and abruptly left me .
chapter xviii
merry days were these at thornfield hall ; and busy days too : how different from the first three months of stillness , monotony , and solitude i had passed beneath its roof !
all sad feelings seemed now driven from the house , all gloomy associations forgotten : there was life everywhere , movement all day long . you could not now traverse the gallery , once so hushed , nor enter the front chambers , once so tenantless , without encountering a smart lady 's-maid or a dandy valet .
the kitchen , the butler 's pantry , the servants ' hall , the entrance hall , were equally alive ; and the saloons were only left void and still when the blue sky and halcyon sunshine of the genial spring weather called their occupants out into the grounds .
even when that weather was broken , and continuous rain set in for some days , no damp seemed cast over enjoyment : indoor amusements only became more lively and varied , in consequence of the stop put to outdoor gaiety .
i wondered what they were going to do the first evening a change of entertainment was proposed : they spoke of " playing charades , " but in my ignorance i did not understand the term .
the servants were called in , the dining-room tables wheeled away , the lights otherwise disposed , the chairs placed in a semicircle opposite the arch .
while mr. rochester and the other gentlemen directed these alterations , the ladies were running up and down stairs ringing for their maids .
mrs. fairfax was summoned to give information respecting the resources of the house in shawls , dresses , draperies of any kind ; and certain wardrobes of the third storey were ransacked , and their contents , in the shape of brocaded and hooped petticoats , satin sacques , black modes , lace lappets , & c . , were brought down in armfuls by the abigails ; then a selection was made , and such things as were chosen were carried to the boudoir within the drawing-room .
meantime , mr. rochester had again summoned the ladies round him , and was selecting certain of their number to be of his party .
" miss ingram is mine , of course , " said he : afterwards he named the two misses eshton , and mrs. dent .
he looked at me : i happened to be near him , as i had been fastening the clasp of mrs. dent 's bracelet , which had got loose .
" will you play ? " he asked .
i shook my head . he did not insist , which i rather feared he would have done ; he allowed me to return quietly to my usual seat .
he and his aids now withdrew behind the curtain : the other party , which was headed by colonel dent , sat down on the crescent of chairs .
one of the gentlemen , mr. eshton , observing me , seemed to propose that i should be asked to join them ; but lady ingram instantly negatived the notion .
" no , " i heard her say : " she looks too stupid for any game of the sort . "
ere long a bell tinkled , and the curtain drew up .
within the arch , the bulky figure of sir george lynn , whom mr. rochester had likewise chosen , was seen enveloped in a white sheet : before him , on a table , lay open a large book ; and at his side stood amy eshton , draped in mr. rochester 's cloak , and holding a book in her hand .
somebody , unseen , rang the bell merrily ; then adele ( who had insisted on being one of her guardian 's party ) , bounded forward , scattering round her the contents of a basket of flowers she carried on her arm .
then appeared the magnificent figure of miss ingram , clad in white , a long veil on her head , and a wreath of roses round her brow ; by her side walked mr. rochester , and together they drew near the table . they knelt ; while mrs. dent and louisa eshton , dressed also in white , took up their stations behind them .
a ceremony followed , in dumb show , in which it was easy to recognise the pantomime of a marriage .
at its termination , colonel dent and his party consulted in whispers for two minutes , then the colonel called out--
" bride ! "
mr. rochester bowed , and the curtain fell .
a considerable interval elapsed before it again rose . its second rising displayed a more elaborately prepared scene than the last .
the drawing- room , as i have before observed , was raised two steps above the dining- room , and on the top of the upper step , placed a yard or two back within the room , appeared a large marble basin--which i recognised as an ornament of the conservatory--where it usually stood , surrounded by exotics , and tenanted by gold fish--and whence it must have been transported with some trouble , on account of its size and weight .
seated on the carpet , by the side of this basin , was seen mr. rochester , costumed in shawls , with a turban on his head .
presently advanced into view miss ingram . she , too , was attired in oriental fashion : a crimson scarf tied sash-like round the waist : an embroidered handkerchief knotted about her temples ; her beautifully-moulded arms bare , one of them upraised in the act of supporting a pitcher , poised gracefully on her head .
both her cast of form and feature , her complexion and her general air , suggested the idea of some israelitish princess of the patriarchal days ; and such was doubtless the character she intended to represent .
she approached the basin , and bent over it as if to fill her pitcher ; she again lifted it to her head .
the personage on the well-brink now seemed to accost her ; to make some request : -- " she hasted , let down her pitcher on her hand , and gave him to drink . "
from the bosom of his robe he then produced a casket , opened it and showed magnificent bracelets and earrings ; she acted astonishment and admiration ; kneeling , he laid the treasure at her feet ; incredulity and delight were expressed by her looks and gestures ; the stranger fastened the bracelets on her arms and the rings in her ears .
it was eliezer and rebecca : the camels only were wanting .
the divining party again laid their heads together : apparently they could not agree about the word or syllable the scene illustrated . colonel dent , their spokesman , demanded " the tableau of the whole ; " whereupon the curtain again descended .
on its third rising only a portion of the drawing-room was disclosed ; the rest being concealed by a screen , hung with some sort of dark and coarse drapery . the marble basin was removed ; in its place , stood a deal table and a kitchen chair : these objects were visible by a very dim light proceeding from a horn lantern , the wax candles being all extinguished .
amidst this sordid scene , sat a man with his clenched hands resting on his knees , and his eyes bent on the ground . i knew mr. rochester ; though the begrimed face , the disordered dress ( his coat hanging loose from one arm , as if it had been almost torn from his back in a scuffle ) , the desperate and scowling countenance , the rough , bristling hair might well have disguised him .
" bridewell ! " exclaimed colonel dent , and the charade was solved .
a sufficient interval having elapsed for the performers to resume their ordinary costume , they re-entered the dining-room . mr. rochester led in miss ingram ; she was complimenting him on his acting .
" do you know , " said she , " that , of the three characters , i liked you in the last best ? oh , had you but lived a few years earlier , what a gallant gentleman-highwayman you would have made ! "
" is all the soot washed from my face ? " he asked , turning it towards her .
" alas ! yes : the more 's the pity ! nothing could be more becoming to your complexion than that ruffian 's rouge . "
" you would like a hero of the road then ? "
" an english hero of the road would be the next best thing to an italian bandit ; and that could only be surpassed by a levantine pirate . "
" well , whatever i am , remember you are my wife ; we were married an hour since , in the presence of all these witnesses . "
she giggled , and her colour rose .
" now , dent , " continued mr. rochester , " it is your turn . "
and as the other party withdrew , he and his band took the vacated seats . miss ingram placed herself at her leader 's right hand ; the other diviners filled the chairs on each side of him and her .
i did not now watch the actors ; i no longer waited with interest for the curtain to rise ; my attention was absorbed by the spectators ; my eyes , erewhile fixed on the arch , were now irresistibly attracted to the semicircle of chairs .
what charade colonel dent and his party played , what word they chose , how they acquitted themselves , i no longer remember ; but i still see the consultation which followed each scene : i see mr. rochester turn to miss ingram , and miss ingram to him ; i see her incline her head towards him , till the jetty curls almost touch his shoulder and wave against his cheek ; i hear their mutual whisperings ; i recall their interchanged glances ; and something even of the feeling roused by the spectacle returns in memory at this moment .
i have told you , reader , that i had learnt to love mr. rochester : i could not unlove him now , merely because i found that he had ceased to notice me--because i might pass hours in his presence , and he would never once turn his eyes in my direction--because i saw all his attentions appropriated by a great lady , who scorned to touch me with the hem of her robes as she passed ; who , if ever her dark and imperious eye fell on me by chance , would withdraw it instantly as from an object too mean to merit observation .
i could not unlove him , because i felt sure he would soon marry this very lady--because i read daily in her a proud security in his intentions respecting her--because i witnessed hourly in him a style of courtship which , if careless and choosing rather to be sought than to seek , was yet , in its very carelessness , captivating , and in its very pride , irresistible .
there was nothing to cool or banish love in these circumstances , though much to create despair . much too , you will think , reader , to engender jealousy : if a woman , in my position , could presume to be jealous of a woman in miss ingram 's .
but i was not jealous : or very rarely ; --the nature of the pain i suffered could not be explained by that word . miss ingram was a mark beneath jealousy : she was too inferior to excite the feeling .
pardon the seeming paradox ; i mean what i say . she was very showy , but she was not genuine : she had a fine person , many brilliant attainments ; but her mind was poor , her heart barren by nature : nothing bloomed spontaneously on that soil ; no unforced natural fruit delighted by its freshness .
she was not good ; she was not original : she used to repeat sounding phrases from books : she never offered , nor had , an opinion of her own . she advocated a high tone of sentiment ; but she did not know the sensations of sympathy and pity ; tenderness and truth were not in her .
too often she betrayed this , by the undue vent she gave to a spiteful antipathy she had conceived against little adele : pushing her away with some contumelious epithet if she happened to approach her ; sometimes ordering her from the room , and always treating her with coldness and acrimony .
yes ; the future bridegroom , mr. rochester himself , exercised over his intended a ceaseless surveillance ; and it was from this sagacity--this guardedness of his--this perfect , clear consciousness of his fair one 's defects--this obvious absence of passion in his sentiments towards her , that my ever- torturing pain arose .
i saw he was going to marry her , for family , perhaps political reasons , because her rank and connections suited him ; i felt he had not given her his love , and that her qualifications were ill adapted to win from him that treasure .
this was the point--this was where the nerve was touched and teased--this was where the fever was sustained and fed : _ she could not charm him _ .
if she had managed the victory at once , and he had yielded and sincerely laid his heart at her feet , i should have covered my face , turned to the wall , and ( figuratively ) have died to them .
if miss ingram had been a good and noble woman , endowed with force , fervour , kindness , sense , i should have had one vital struggle with two tigers--jealousy and despair : then , my heart torn out and devoured , i should have admired her--acknowledged her excellence , and been quiet for the rest of my days : and the more absolute her superiority , the deeper would have been my admiration--the more truly tranquil my quiescence .
but as matters really stood , to watch miss ingram 's efforts at fascinating mr. rochester , to witness their repeated failure--herself unconscious that they did fail ; vainly fancying that each shaft launched hit the mark , and infatuatedly pluming herself on success , when her pride and self-complacency repelled further and further what she wished to allure--to witness _ this _ , was to be at once under ceaseless excitation and ruthless restraint .
because , when she failed , i saw how she might have succeeded .
arrows that continually glanced off from mr. rochester 's breast and fell harmless at his feet , might , i knew , if shot by a surer hand , have quivered keen in his proud heart--have called love into his stern eye , and softness into his sardonic face ; or , better still , without weapons a silent conquest might have been won .
" why can she not influence him more , when she is privileged to draw so near to him ? "
i asked myself . " surely she cannot truly like him , or not like him with true affection !
if she did , she need not coin her smiles so lavishly , flash her glances so unremittingly , manufacture airs so elaborate , graces so multitudinous . it seems to me that she might , by merely sitting quietly at his side , saying little and looking less , get nigher his heart .
i have seen in his face a far different expression from that which hardens it now while she is so vivaciously accosting him ; but then it came of itself : it was not elicited by meretricious arts and calculated manoeuvres ; and one had but to accept it--to answer what he asked without pretension , to address him when needful without grimace--and it increased and grew kinder and more genial , and warmed one like a fostering sunbeam . how will she manage to please him when they are married ?
i do not think she will manage it ; and yet it might be managed ; and his wife might , i verily believe , be the very happiest woman the sun shines on . "
i have not yet said anything condemnatory of mr. rochester 's project of marrying for interest and connections .
it surprised me when i first discovered that such was his intention : i had thought him a man unlikely to be influenced by motives so commonplace in his choice of a wife ; but the longer i considered the position , education , & c . , of the parties , the less i felt justified in judging and blaming either him or miss ingram for acting in conformity to ideas and principles instilled into them , doubtless , from their childhood .
all their class held these principles : i supposed , then , they had reasons for holding them such as i could not fathom .
it seemed to me that , were i a gentleman like him , i would take to my bosom only such a wife as i could love ; but the very obviousness of the advantages to the husband 's own happiness offered by this plan convinced me that there must be arguments against its general adoption of which i was quite ignorant : otherwise i felt sure all the world would act as i wished to act .
but in other points , as well as this , i was growing very lenient to my master : i was forgetting all his faults , for which i had once kept a sharp look-out .
it had formerly been my endeavour to study all sides of his character : to take the bad with the good ; and from the just weighing of both , to form an equitable judgment . now i saw no bad .
the sarcasm that had repelled , the harshness that had startled me once , were only like keen condiments in a choice dish : their presence was pungent , but their absence would be felt as comparatively insipid . and as for the vague something--was it a sinister or a sorrowful , a designing or a desponding expression ? --that opened upon a careful observer , now and then , in his eye , and closed again before one could fathom the strange depth partially disclosed ; that something which used to make me fear and shrink , as if i had been wandering amongst volcanic-looking hills , and had suddenly felt the ground quiver and seen it gape : that something , i , at intervals , beheld still ; and with throbbing heart , but not with palsied nerves .
instead of wishing to shun , i longed only to dare--to divine it ; and i thought miss ingram happy , because one day she might look into the abyss at her leisure , explore its secrets and analyse their nature .
meantime , while i thought only of my master and his future bride--saw only them , heard only their discourse , and considered only their movements of importance--the rest of the party were occupied with their own separate interests and pleasures .
the ladies lynn and ingram continued to consort in solemn conferences , where they nodded their two turbans at each other , and held up their four hands in confronting gestures of surprise , or mystery , or horror , according to the theme on which their gossip ran , like a pair of magnified puppets . mild mrs. dent talked with good-natured mrs. eshton ; and the two sometimes bestowed a courteous word or smile on me .
sir george lynn , colonel dent , and mr. eshton discussed politics , or county affairs , or justice business . lord ingram flirted with amy eshton ; louisa played and sang to and with one of the messrs. lynn ; and mary ingram listened languidly to the gallant speeches of the other .
sometimes all , as with one consent , suspended their by-play to observe and listen to the principal actors : for , after all , mr. rochester and--because closely connected with him--miss ingram were the life and soul of the party . if he was absent from the room an hour , a perceptible dulness seemed to steal over the spirits of his guests ; and his re-entrance was sure to give a fresh impulse to the vivacity of conversation .
the want of his animating influence appeared to be peculiarly felt one day that he had been summoned to millcote on business , and was not likely to return till late .
the afternoon was wet : a walk the party had proposed to take to see a gipsy camp , lately pitched on a common beyond hay , was consequently deferred . some of the gentlemen were gone to the stables : the younger ones , together with the younger ladies , were playing billiards in the billiard-room .
the dowagers ingram and lynn sought solace in a quiet game at cards . blanche ingram , after having repelled , by supercilious taciturnity , some efforts of mrs. dent and mrs. eshton to draw her into conversation , had first murmured over some sentimental tunes and airs on the piano , and then , having fetched a novel from the library , had flung herself in haughty listlessness on a sofa , and prepared to beguile , by the spell of fiction , the tedious hours of absence .
the room and the house were silent : only now and then the merriment of the billiard-players was heard from above .
it was verging on dusk , and the clock had already given warning of the hour to dress for dinner , when little adele , who knelt by me in the drawing-room window-seat , suddenly exclaimed--
" voila , monsieur rochester , qui revient ! "
i turned , and miss ingram darted forwards from her sofa : the others , too , looked up from their several occupations ; for at the same time a crunching of wheels and a splashing tramp of horse-hoofs became audible on the wet gravel . a post-chaise was approaching .
" what can possess him to come home in that style ? " said miss ingram . " he rode mesrour ( the black horse ) , did he not , when he went out ? and pilot was with him : --what has he done with the animals ? "
as she said this , she approached her tall person and ample garments so near the window , that i was obliged to bend back almost to the breaking of my spine : in her eagerness she did not observe me at first , but when she did , she curled her lip and moved to another casement .
the post-chaise stopped ; the driver rang the door-bell , and a gentleman alighted attired in travelling garb ; but it was not mr. rochester ; it was a tall , fashionable-looking man , a stranger .
" how provoking ! " exclaimed miss ingram : " you tiresome monkey ! " ( apostrophising adele ) , " who perched you up in the window to give false intelligence ? " and she cast on me an angry glance , as if i were in fault .
some parleying was audible in the hall , and soon the new-comer entered .
he bowed to lady ingram , as deeming her the eldest lady present .
" it appears i come at an inopportune time , madam , " said he , " when my friend , mr. rochester , is from home ; but i arrive from a very long journey , and i think i may presume so far on old and intimate acquaintance as to instal myself here till he returns . "
his manner was polite ; his accent , in speaking , struck me as being somewhat unusual , --not precisely foreign , but still not altogether english : his age might be about mr. rochester 's , --between thirty and forty ; his complexion was singularly sallow : otherwise he was a fine-looking man , at first sight especially .
on closer examination , you detected something in his face that displeased , or rather that failed to please . his features were regular , but too relaxed : his eye was large and well cut , but the life looking out of it was a tame , vacant life--at least so i thought . the sound of the dressing-bell dispersed the party .
it was not till after dinner that i saw him again : he then seemed quite at his ease .
but i liked his physiognomy even less than before : it struck me as being at the same time unsettled and inanimate . his eye wandered , and had no meaning in its wandering : this gave him an odd look , such as i never remembered to have seen .
for a handsome and not an unamiable-looking man , he repelled me exceedingly : there was no power in that smooth-skinned face of a full oval shape : no firmness in that aquiline nose and small cherry mouth ; there was no thought on the low , even forehead ; no command in that blank , brown eye .
as i sat in my usual nook , and looked at him with the light of the girandoles on the mantelpiece beaming full over him--for he occupied an arm-chair drawn close to the fire , and kept shrinking still nearer , as if he were cold , i compared him with mr. rochester .
i think ( with deference be it spoken ) the contrast could not be much greater between a sleek gander and a fierce falcon : between a meek sheep and the rough-coated keen-eyed dog , its guardian .
he had spoken of mr. rochester as an old friend .
a curious friendship theirs must have been : a pointed illustration , indeed , of the old adage that " extremes meet . "
two or three of the gentlemen sat near him , and i caught at times scraps of their conversation across the room .
at first i could not make much sense of what i heard ; for the discourse of louisa eshton and mary ingram , who sat nearer to me , confused the fragmentary sentences that reached me at intervals . these last were discussing the stranger ; they both called him " a beautiful man . "
louisa said he was " a love of a creature , " and she " adored him ; " and mary instanced his " pretty little mouth , and nice nose , " as her ideal of the charming . " and what a sweet-tempered forehead he has ! " cried louisa , -- " so smooth--none of those frowning irregularities i dislike so much ; and such a placid eye and smile ! "
and then , to my great relief , mr. henry lynn summoned them to the other side of the room , to settle some point about the deferred excursion to hay common .
i was now able to concentrate my attention on the group by the fire , and i presently gathered that the new-comer was called mr. mason ; then i learned that he was but just arrived in england , and that he came from some hot country : which was the reason , doubtless , his face was so sallow , and that he sat so near the hearth , and wore a surtout in the house .
presently the words jamaica , kingston , spanish town , indicated the west indies as his residence ; and it was with no little surprise i gathered , ere long , that he had there first seen and become acquainted with mr. rochester .
he spoke of his friend 's dislike of the burning heats , the hurricanes , and rainy seasons of that region .
i knew mr. rochester had been a traveller : mrs. fairfax had said so ; but i thought the continent of europe had bounded his wanderings ; till now i had never heard a hint given of visits to more distant shores .
i was pondering these things , when an incident , and a somewhat unexpected one , broke the thread of my musings .
mr. mason , shivering as some one chanced to open the door , asked for more coal to be put on the fire , which had burnt out its flame , though its mass of cinder still shone hot and red .
the footman who brought the coal , in going out , stopped near mr. eshton 's chair , and said something to him in a low voice , of which i heard only the words , " old woman , " -- " quite troublesome . "
" tell her she shall be put in the stocks if she does not take herself off , " replied the magistrate .
" no--stop ! " interrupted colonel dent . " don 't send her away , eshton ; we might turn the thing to account ; better consult the ladies . "
and speaking aloud , he continued-- " ladies , you talked of going to hay common to visit the gipsy camp ; sam here says that one of the old mother bunches is in the servants ' hall at this moment , and insists upon being brought in before ' the quality , ' to tell them their fortunes . would you like to see her ? "
" surely , colonel , " cried lady ingram , " you would not encourage such a low impostor ? dismiss her , by all means , at once ! "
" but i cannot persuade her to go away , my lady , " said the footman ; " nor can any of the servants : mrs. fairfax is with her just now , entreating her to be gone ; but she has taken a chair in the chimney-corner , and says nothing shall stir her from it till she gets leave to come in here . "
" what does she want ? " asked mrs. eshton .
" ' to tell the gentry their fortunes , ' she says , ma 'am ; and she swears she must and will do it . "
" what is she like ? " inquired the misses eshton , in a breath .
" a shockingly ugly old creature , miss ; almost as black as a crock . "
" why , she 's a real sorceress ! " cried frederick lynn . " let us have her in , of course . "
" to be sure , " rejoined his brother ; " it would be a thousand pities to throw away such a chance of fun . "
" my dear boys , what are you thinking about ? " exclaimed mrs. lynn .
" i cannot possibly countenance any such inconsistent proceeding , " chimed in the dowager ingram .
" indeed , mama , but you can--and will , " pronounced the haughty voice of blanche , as she turned round on the piano-stool ; where till now she had sat silent , apparently examining sundry sheets of music . " i have a curiosity to hear my fortune told : therefore , sam , order the beldame forward . "
" my darling blanche ! recollect-- "
" i do--i recollect all you can suggest ; and i must have my will--quick , sam ! "
" yes--yes--yes ! " cried all the juveniles , both ladies and gentlemen . " let her come--it will be excellent sport ! "
the footman still lingered .
" she looks such a rough one , " said he .
" go ! " ejaculated miss ingram , and the man went .
excitement instantly seized the whole party : a running fire of raillery and jests was proceeding when sam returned .
" she won 't come now , " said he . " she says it 's not her mission to appear before the ' vulgar herd ' ( them 's her words ) .
i must show her into a room by herself , and then those who wish to consult her must go to her one by one . "
" you see now , my queenly blanche , " began lady ingram , " she encroaches . be advised , my angel girl--and-- "
" show her into the library , of course , " cut in the " angel girl . "
" it is not my mission to listen to her before the vulgar herd either : i mean to have her all to myself .
is there a fire in the library ? "
" yes , ma 'am--but she looks such a tinkler . "
" cease that chatter , blockhead ! and do my bidding . "
again sam vanished ; and mystery , animation , expectation rose to full flow once more .
" she 's ready now , " said the footman , as he reappeared . " she wishes to know who will be her first visitor . "
" i think i had better just look in upon her before any of the ladies go , " said colonel dent . " tell her , sam , a gentleman is coming . "
sam went and returned .
" she says , sir , that she 'll have no gentlemen ; they need not trouble themselves to come near her ; nor , " he added , with difficulty suppressing a titter , " any ladies either , except the young , and single . "
" by jove , she has taste ! " exclaimed henry lynn .
miss ingram rose solemnly : " i go first , " she said , in a tone which might have befitted the leader of a forlorn hope , mounting a breach in the van of his men .
" oh , my best ! oh , my dearest ! pause--reflect ! " was her mama 's cry ; but she swept past her in stately silence , passed through the door which colonel dent held open , and we heard her enter the library . a comparative silence ensued .
lady ingram thought it " le cas " to wring her hands : which she did accordingly . miss mary declared she felt , for her part , she never dared venture . amy and louisa eshton tittered under their breath , and looked a little frightened .
the minutes passed very slowly : fifteen were counted before the library- door again opened .
would she laugh ?
would she take it as a joke ?
all eyes met her with a glance of eager curiosity , and she met all eyes with one of rebuff and coldness ; she looked neither flurried nor merry : she walked stiffly to her seat , and took it in silence .
" well , blanche ? " said lord ingram .
" what did she say , sister ? " asked mary .
" what did you think ?
how do you feel ? --is she a real fortune-teller ? " demanded the misses eshton .
" now , now , good people , " returned miss ingram , " don 't press upon me .
really your organs of wonder and credulity are easily excited : you seem , by the importance of you all--my good mama included--ascribe to this matter , absolutely to believe we have a genuine witch in the house , who is in close alliance with the old gentleman .
i have seen a gipsy vagabond ; she has practised in hackneyed fashion the science of palmistry and told me what such people usually tell . my whim is gratified ; and now i think mr. eshton will do well to put the hag in the stocks to-morrow morning , as he threatened . "
miss ingram took a book , leant back in her chair , and so declined further conversation .
i watched her for nearly half-an-hour : during all that time she never turned a page , and her face grew momently darker , more dissatisfied , and more sourly expressive of disappointment .
she had obviously not heard anything to her advantage : and it seemed to me , from her prolonged fit of gloom and taciturnity , that she herself , notwithstanding her professed indifference , attached undue importance to whatever revelations had been made her .
{ during all that time she never turned a page : p184.jpg } meantime , mary ingram , amy and louisa eshton , declared they dared not go alone ; and yet they all wished to go .
a negotiation was opened through the medium of the ambassador , sam ; and after much pacing to and fro , till , i think , the said sam 's calves must have ached with the exercise , permission was at last , with great difficulty , extorted from the rigorous sibyl , for the three to wait upon her in a body .
their visit was not so still as miss ingram 's had been : we heard hysterical giggling and little shrieks proceeding from the library ; and at the end of about twenty minutes they burst the door open , and came running across the hall , as if they were half-scared out of their wits . " i am sure she is something not right ! " they cried , one and all .
" she told us such things ! she knows all about us ! " and they sank breathless into the various seats the gentlemen hastened to bring them .
pressed for further explanation , they declared she had told them of things they had said and done when they were mere children ; described books and ornaments they had in their boudoirs at home : keepsakes that different relations had presented to them .
they affirmed that she had even divined their thoughts , and had whispered in the ear of each the name of the person she liked best in the world , and informed them of what they most wished for . here the gentlemen interposed with earnest petitions to be further enlightened on these two last-named points ; but they got only blushes , ejaculations , tremors , and titters , in return for their importunity .
the matrons , meantime , offered vinaigrettes and wielded fans ; and again and again reiterated the expression of their concern that their warning had not been taken in time ; and the elder gentlemen laughed , and the younger urged their services on the agitated fair ones .
in the midst of the tumult , and while my eyes and ears were fully engaged in the scene before me , i heard a hem close at my elbow : i turned , and saw sam .
" if you please , miss , the gipsy declares that there is another young single lady in the room who has not been to her yet , and she swears she will not go till she has seen all .
i thought it must be you : there is no one else for it .
what shall i tell her ? "
" oh , i will go by all means , " i answered : and i was glad of the unexpected opportunity to gratify my much-excited curiosity .
i slipped out of the room , unobserved by any eye--for the company were gathered in one mass about the trembling trio just returned--and i closed the door quietly behind me .
" if you like , miss , " said sam , " i 'll wait in the hall for you ; and if she frightens you , just call and i 'll come in . "
" no , sam , return to the kitchen : i am not in the least afraid . "
nor was i ; but i was a good deal interested and excited .
chapter xix
the library looked tranquil enough as i entered it , and the sibyl--if sibyl she were--was seated snugly enough in an easy-chair at the chimney- corner . she had on a red cloak and a black bonnet : or rather , a broad- brimmed gipsy hat , tied down with a striped handkerchief under her chin .
an extinguished candle stood on the table ; she was bending over the fire , and seemed reading in a little black book , like a prayer-book , by the light of the blaze : she muttered the words to herself , as most old women do , while she read ; she did not desist immediately on my entrance : it appeared she wished to finish a paragraph .
i stood on the rug and warmed my hands , which were rather cold with sitting at a distance from the drawing-room fire .
i felt now as composed as ever i did in my life : there was nothing indeed in the gipsy 's appearance to trouble one 's calm .
she shut her book and slowly looked up ; her hat-brim partially shaded her face , yet i could see , as she raised it , that it was a strange one . it looked all brown and black : elf- locks bristled out from beneath a white band which passed under her chin , and came half over her cheeks , or rather jaws : her eye confronted me at once , with a bold and direct gaze .
" well , and you want your fortune told ? " she said , in a voice as decided as her glance , as harsh as her features .
" i don 't care about it , mother ; you may please yourself : but i ought to warn you , i have no faith . "
" it 's like your impudence to say so : i expected it of you ; i heard it in your step as you crossed the threshold . "
" did you ? you 've a quick ear . "
" i have ; and a quick eye and a quick brain . "
" you need them all in your trade . "
" i do ; especially when i 've customers like you to deal with . why don 't you tremble ? "
" i 'm not cold . "
" why don 't you turn pale ? "
" i am not sick . "
" why don 't you consult my art ? "
" i 'm not silly . "
the old crone " nichered " a laugh under her bonnet and bandage ; she then drew out a short black pipe , and lighting it began to smoke . having indulged a while in this sedative , she raised her bent body , took the pipe from her lips , and while gazing steadily at the fire , said very deliberately-- " you are cold ; you are sick ; and you are silly . "
" prove it , " i rejoined .
" i will , in few words . you are cold , because you are alone : no contact strikes the fire from you that is in you . you are sick ; because the best of feelings , the highest and the sweetest given to man , keeps far away from you . you are silly , because , suffer as you may , you will not beckon it to approach , nor will you stir one step to meet it where it waits you . "
she again put her short black pipe to her lips , and renewed her smoking with vigour .
" you might say all that to almost any one who you knew lived as a solitary dependent in a great house . "
" i might say it to almost any one : but would it be true of almost any one ? "
" in my circumstances . "
" yes ; just so , in _ your _ circumstances : but find me another precisely placed as you are . "
" it would be easy to find you thousands . "
" you could scarcely find me one .
if you knew it , you are peculiarly situated : very near happiness ; yes , within reach of it . the materials are all prepared ; there only wants a movement to combine them . chance laid them somewhat apart ; let them be once approached and bliss results . "
" i don 't understand enigmas .
i never could guess a riddle in my life . "
" if you wish me to speak more plainly , show me your palm . "
" and i must cross it with silver , i suppose ? "
" to be sure . "
i gave her a shilling : she put it into an old stocking-foot which she took out of her pocket , and having tied it round and returned it , she told me to hold out my hand .
i did . she approached her face to the palm , and pored over it without touching it .
" it is too fine , " said she . " i can make nothing of such a hand as that ; almost without lines : besides , what is in a palm ? destiny is not written there . "
" i believe you , " said i .
" no , " she continued , " it is in the face : on the forehead , about the eyes , in the lines of the mouth . kneel , and lift up your head . "
" ah ! now you are coming to reality , " i said , as i obeyed her . " i shall begin to put some faith in you presently . "
i knelt within half a yard of her . she stirred the fire , so that a ripple of light broke from the disturbed coal : the glare , however , as she sat , only threw her face into deeper shadow : mine , it illumined .
" i wonder with what feelings you came to me to-night , " she said , when she had examined me a while . " i wonder what thoughts are busy in your heart during all the hours you sit in yonder room with the fine people flitting before you like shapes in a magic-lantern : just as little sympathetic communion passing between you and them as if they were really mere shadows of human forms , and not the actual substance . "
" i feel tired often , sleepy sometimes , but seldom sad . "
" then you have some secret hope to buoy you up and please you with whispers of the future ? "
" not i. the utmost i hope is , to save money enough out of my earnings to set up a school some day in a little house rented by myself . "
" a mean nutriment for the spirit to exist on : and sitting in that window- seat ( you see i know your habits ) -- " " you have learned them from the servants . "
" ah ! you think yourself sharp .
well , perhaps i have : to speak truth , i have an acquaintance with one of them , mrs. poole-- "
i started to my feet when i heard the name .
" you have--have you ? " thought i ; " there is diablerie in the business after all , then ! "
" don 't be alarmed , " continued the strange being ; " she 's a safe hand is mrs. poole : close and quiet ; any one may repose confidence in her .
but , as i was saying : sitting in that window-seat , do you think of nothing but your future school ?
have you no present interest in any of the company who occupy the sofas and chairs before you ?
is there not one face you study ? one figure whose movements you follow with at least curiosity ? "
" i like to observe all the faces and all the figures . "
" but do you never single one from the rest--or it may be , two ? "
" i do frequently ; when the gestures or looks of a pair seem telling a tale : it amuses me to watch them . "
" what tale do you like best to hear ? "
" oh , i have not much choice ! they generally run on the same theme--courtship ; and promise to end in the same catastrophe--marriage . "
" and do you like that monotonous theme ? "
" positively , i don 't care about it : it is nothing to me . "
" nothing to you ?
when a lady , young and full of life and health , charming with beauty and endowed with the gifts of rank and fortune , sits and smiles in the eyes of a gentleman you-- "
" i what ? "
" you know--and perhaps think well of . "
" i don 't know the gentlemen here . i have scarcely interchanged a syllable with one of them ; and as to thinking well of them , i consider some respectable , and stately , and middle-aged , and others young , dashing , handsome , and lively : but certainly they are all at liberty to be the recipients of whose smiles they please , without my feeling disposed to consider the transaction of any moment to me . "
" you don 't know the gentlemen here ?
you have not exchanged a syllable with one of them ?
will you say that of the master of the house ! "
" he is not at home . "
" a profound remark ! a most ingenious quibble ! he went to millcote this morning , and will be back here to-night or to-morrow : does that circumstance exclude him from the list of your acquaintance--blot him , as it were , out of existence ? "
" no ; but i can scarcely see what mr. rochester has to do with the theme you had introduced . "
" i was talking of ladies smiling in the eyes of gentlemen ; and of late so many smiles have been shed into mr. rochester 's eyes that they overflow like two cups filled above the brim : have you never remarked that ? "
" mr. rochester has a right to enjoy the society of his guests . "
" no question about his right : but have you never observed that , of all the tales told here about matrimony , mr. rochester has been favoured with the most lively and the most continuous ? "
" the eagerness of a listener quickens the tongue of a narrator . "
i said this rather to myself than to the gipsy , whose strange talk , voice , manner , had by this time wrapped me in a kind of dream .
one unexpected sentence came from her lips after another , till i got involved in a web of mystification ; and wondered what unseen spirit had been sitting for weeks by my heart watching its workings and taking record of every pulse .
" eagerness of a listener ! " repeated she : " yes ; mr. rochester has sat by the hour , his ear inclined to the fascinating lips that took such delight in their task of communicating ; and mr. rochester was so willing to receive and looked so grateful for the pastime given him ; you have noticed this ? "
" grateful !
i cannot remember detecting gratitude in his face . "
" detecting ! you have analysed , then . and what did you detect , if not gratitude ? "
i said nothing .
" you have seen love : have you not ? --and , looking forward , you have seen him married , and beheld his bride happy ? "
" humph ! not exactly . your witch 's skill is rather at fault sometimes . "
" what the devil have you seen , then ? "
" never mind : i came here to inquire , not to confess . is it known that mr. rochester is to be married ? "
" yes ; and to the beautiful miss ingram . "
" shortly ? "
" appearances would warrant that conclusion : and , no doubt ( though , with an audacity that wants chastising out of you , you seem to question it ) , they will be a superlatively happy pair . he must love such a handsome , noble , witty , accomplished lady ; and probably she loves him , or , if not his person , at least his purse .
i know she considers the rochester estate eligible to the last degree ; though ( god pardon me ! ) i told her something on that point about an hour ago which made her look wondrous grave : the corners of her mouth fell half an inch .
i would advise her blackaviced suitor to look out : if another comes , with a longer or clearer rent-roll , --he 's dished-- "
" but , mother , i did not come to hear mr. rochester 's fortune : i came to hear my own ; and you have told me nothing of it . "
" your fortune is yet doubtful : when i examined your face , one trait contradicted another .
chance has meted you a measure of happiness : that i know . i knew it before i came here this evening . she has laid it carefully on one side for you . i saw her do it .
it depends on yourself to stretch out your hand , and take it up : but whether you will do so , is the problem i study .
kneel again on the rug . "
" don 't keep me long ; the fire scorches me . "
i knelt .
she did not stoop towards me , but only gazed , leaning back in her chair . she began muttering , --
" the flame flickers in the eye ; the eye shines like dew ; it looks soft and full of feeling ; it smiles at my jargon : it is susceptible ; impression follows impression through its clear sphere ; where it ceases to smile , it is sad ; an unconscious lassitude weighs on the lid : that signifies melancholy resulting from loneliness . it turns from me ; it will not suffer further scrutiny ; it seems to deny , by a mocking glance , the truth of the discoveries i have already made , --to disown the charge both of sensibility and chagrin : its pride and reserve only confirm me in my opinion .
the eye is favourable .
" as to the mouth , it delights at times in laughter ; it is disposed to impart all that the brain conceives ; though i daresay it would be silent on much the heart experiences . mobile and flexible , it was never intended to be compressed in the eternal silence of solitude : it is a mouth which should speak much and smile often , and have human affection for its interlocutor .
that feature too is propitious .
" i see no enemy to a fortunate issue but in the brow ; and that brow professes to say , -- ' i can live alone , if self-respect , and circumstances require me so to do . i need not sell my soul to buy bliss . i have an inward treasure born with me , which can keep me alive if all extraneous delights should be withheld , or offered only at a price i cannot afford to give . ' the forehead declares , ' reason sits firm and holds the reins , and she will not let the feelings burst away and hurry her to wild chasms . the passions may rage furiously , like true heathens , as they are ; and the desires may imagine all sorts of vain things : but judgment shall still have the last word in every argument , and the casting vote in every decision .
strong wind , earthquake-shock , and fire may pass by : but i shall follow the guiding of that still small voice which interprets the dictates of conscience . '
" well said , forehead ; your declaration shall be respected . i have formed my plans--right plans i deem them--and in them i have attended to the claims of conscience , the counsels of reason .
i know how soon youth would fade and bloom perish , if , in the cup of bliss offered , but one dreg of shame , or one flavour of remorse were detected ; and i do not want sacrifice , sorrow , dissolution--such is not my taste .
i wish to foster , not to blight--to earn gratitude , not to wring tears of blood--no , nor of brine : my harvest must be in smiles , in endearments , in sweet--that will do .
i think i rave in a kind of exquisite delirium .
i should wish now to protract this moment _ ad infinitum _ ; but i dare not .
so far i have governed myself thoroughly . i have acted as i inwardly swore i would act ; but further might try me beyond my strength .
rise , miss eyre : leave me ; the play is played out ' . "
where was i ? did i wake or sleep ?
had i been dreaming ? did i dream still ?
the old woman 's voice had changed : her accent , her gesture , and all were familiar to me as my own face in a glass--as the speech of my own tongue . i got up , but did not go .
i looked ; i stirred the fire , and i looked again : but she drew her bonnet and her bandage closer about her face , and again beckoned me to depart . the flame illuminated her hand stretched out : roused now , and on the alert for discoveries , i at once noticed that hand .
it was no more the withered limb of eld than my own ; it was a rounded supple member , with smooth fingers , symmetrically turned ; a broad ring flashed on the little finger , and stooping forward , i looked at it , and saw a gem i had seen a hundred times before .
" well , jane , do you know me ? " asked the familiar voice .
" only take off the red cloak , sir , and then-- "
" but the string is in a knot--help me . "
" break it , sir . "
" there , then-- ' off , ye lendings ! ' " and mr. rochester stepped out of his disguise .
" now , sir , what a strange idea ! "
" but well carried out , eh ? don 't you think so ? "
" with the ladies you must have managed well . "
" but not with you ? "
" you did not act the character of a gipsy with me . "
" what character did i act ? my own ? "
" no ; some unaccountable one . in short , i believe you have been trying to draw me out--or in ; you have been talking nonsense to make me talk nonsense . it is scarcely fair , sir . "
" do you forgive me , jane ? "
" i cannot tell till i have thought it all over . if , on reflection , i find i have fallen into no great absurdity , i shall try to forgive you ; but it was not right . "
" oh , you have been very correct--very careful , very sensible . "
i reflected , and thought , on the whole , i had . it was a comfort ; but , indeed , i had been on my guard almost from the beginning of the interview . something of masquerade i suspected . i knew gipsies and fortune-tellers did not express themselves as this seeming old woman had expressed herself ; besides i had noted her feigned voice , her anxiety to conceal her features . but my mind had been running on grace poole--that living enigma , that mystery of mysteries , as i considered her . i had never thought of mr. rochester .
" well , " said he , " what are you musing about ?
what does that grave smile signify ? "
" wonder and self-congratulation , sir . i have your permission to retire now , i suppose ? "
" no ; stay a moment ; and tell me what the people in the drawing-room yonder are doing . "
" discussing the gipsy , i daresay . "
" sit down ! --let me hear what they said about me . "
" i had better not stay long , sir ; it must be near eleven o 'clock . oh , are you aware , mr. rochester , that a stranger has arrived here since you left this morning ? "
" a stranger ! --no ; who can it be ?
i expected no one ; is he gone ? "
" no ; he said he had known you long , and that he could take the liberty of installing himself here till you returned . " " the devil he did !
did he give his name ? "
" his name is mason , sir ; and he comes from the west indies ; from spanish town , in jamaica , i think . "
mr. rochester was standing near me ; he had taken my hand , as if to lead me to a chair . as i spoke he gave my wrist a convulsive grip ; the smile on his lips froze : apparently a spasm caught his breath .
" mason ! --the west indies ! " he said , in the tone one might fancy a speaking automaton to enounce its single words ; " mason ! --the west indies ! " he reiterated ; and he went over the syllables three times , growing , in the intervals of speaking , whiter than ashes : he hardly seemed to know what he was doing .
" do you feel ill , sir ? " i inquired .
" jane , i 've got a blow ; i 've got a blow , jane ! " he staggered .
" oh , lean on me , sir . "
" jane , you offered me your shoulder once before ; let me have it now . "
" yes , sir , yes ; and my arm . "
he sat down , and made me sit beside him . holding my hand in both his own , he chafed it ; gazing on me , at the same time , with the most troubled and dreary look .
" my little friend ! " said he , " i wish i were in a quiet island with only you ; and trouble , and danger , and hideous recollections removed from me . "
" can i help you , sir ? --i 'd give my life to serve you . "
" jane , if aid is wanted , i 'll seek it at your hands ; i promise you that . "
" thank you , sir . tell me what to do , --i 'll try , at least , to do it . "
" fetch me now , jane , a glass of wine from the dining-room : they will be at supper there ; and tell me if mason is with them , and what he is doing . "
i went .
i found all the party in the dining-room at supper , as mr. rochester had said ; they were not seated at table , --the supper was arranged on the sideboard ; each had taken what he chose , and they stood about here and there in groups , their plates and glasses in their hands .
every one seemed in high glee ; laughter and conversation were general and animated .
mr. mason stood near the fire , talking to colonel and mrs. dent , and appeared as merry as any of them .
i filled a wine-glass ( i saw miss ingram watch me frowningly as i did so : she thought i was taking a liberty , i daresay ) , and i returned to the library .
mr. rochester 's extreme pallor had disappeared , and he looked once more firm and stern . he took the glass from my hand .
" here is to your health , ministrant spirit ! " he said .
he swallowed the contents and returned it to me .
" what are they doing , jane ? "
" laughing and talking , sir . "
" they don 't look grave and mysterious , as if they had heard something strange ? "
" not at all : they are full of jests and gaiety . "
" and mason ? "
" he was laughing too . "
" if all these people came in a body and spat at me , what would you do , jane ? "
" turn them out of the room , sir , if i could . "
he half smiled .
" but if i were to go to them , and they only looked at me coldly , and whispered sneeringly amongst each other , and then dropped off and left me one by one , what then ? would you go with them ? "
" i rather think not , sir : i should have more pleasure in staying with you . "
" to comfort me ? "
" yes , sir , to comfort you , as well as i could . "
" and if they laid you under a ban for adhering to me ? "
" i , probably , should know nothing about their ban ; and if i did , i should care nothing about it . "
" then , you could dare censure for my sake ? "
" i could dare it for the sake of any friend who deserved my adherence ; as you , i am sure , do . "
" go back now into the room ; step quietly up to mason , and whisper in his ear that mr. rochester is come and wishes to see him : show him in here and then leave me . " " yes , sir . "
i did his behest .
the company all stared at me as i passed straight among them . i sought mr. mason , delivered the message , and preceded him from the room : i ushered him into the library , and then i went upstairs .
at a late hour , after i had been in bed some time , i heard the visitors repair to their chambers : i distinguished mr. rochester 's voice , and heard him say , " this way , mason ; this is your room . "
he spoke cheerfully : the gay tones set my heart at ease . i was soon asleep .
chapter xx
i had forgotten to draw my curtain , which i usually did , and also to let down my window-blind . the consequence was , that when the moon , which was full and bright ( for the night was fine ) , came in her course to that space in the sky opposite my casement , and looked in at me through the unveiled panes , her glorious gaze roused me .
awaking in the dead of night , i opened my eyes on her disk--silver-white and crystal clear . it was beautiful , but too solemn ; i half rose , and stretched my arm to draw the curtain .
good god ! what a cry !
the night--its silence--its rest , was rent in twain by a savage , a sharp , a shrilly sound that ran from end to end of thornfield hall .
my pulse stopped : my heart stood still ; my stretched arm was paralysed .
the cry died , and was not renewed . indeed , whatever being uttered that fearful shriek could not soon repeat it : not the widest-winged condor on the andes could , twice in succession , send out such a yell from the cloud shrouding his eyrie . the thing delivering such utterance must rest ere it could repeat the effort .
it came out of the third storey ; for it passed overhead .
and overhead--yes , in the room just above my chamber-ceiling--i now heard a struggle : a deadly one it seemed from the noise ; and a half-smothered voice shouted--
" help ! help ! help ! " three times rapidly .
" will no one come ? " it cried ; and then , while the staggering and stamping went on wildly , i distinguished through plank and plaster : -- " rochester ! rochester ! for god 's sake , come ! "
a chamber-door opened : some one ran , or rushed , along the gallery . another step stamped on the flooring above and something fell ; and there was silence .
i had put on some clothes , though horror shook all my limbs ; i issued from my apartment .
the sleepers were all aroused : ejaculations , terrified murmurs sounded in every room ; door after door unclosed ; one looked out and another looked out ; the gallery filled .
gentlemen and ladies alike had quitted their beds ; and " oh ! what is it ? " -- " who is hurt ? " -- " what has happened ? " -- " fetch a light ! " -- " is it fire ? " -- " are there robbers ? " -- " where shall we run ? " was demanded confusedly on all hands .
but for the moonlight they would have been in complete darkness . they ran to and fro ; they crowded together : some sobbed , some stumbled : the confusion was inextricable .
" where the devil is rochester ? " cried colonel dent .
" be composed , all of you : i 'm coming . "
and the door at the end of the gallery opened , and mr. rochester advanced with a candle : he had just descended from the upper storey . one of the ladies ran to him directly ; she seized his arm : it was miss ingram .
" speak ! let us know the worst at once ! "
" but don 't pull me down or strangle me , " he replied : for the misses eshton were clinging about him now ; and the two dowagers , in vast white wrappers , were bearing down on him like ships in full sail .
" all 's right ! --all 's right ! " he cried . " it 's a mere rehearsal of much ado about nothing . ladies , keep off , or i shall wax dangerous . "
and dangerous he looked : his black eyes darted sparks . calming himself by an effort , he added--
" a servant has had the nightmare ; that is all . she 's an excitable , nervous person : she construed her dream into an apparition , or something of that sort , no doubt ; and has taken a fit with fright .
now , then , i must see you all back into your rooms ; for , till the house is settled , she cannot be looked after .
gentlemen , have the goodness to set the ladies the example . miss ingram , i am sure you will not fail in evincing superiority to idle terrors . amy and louisa , return to your nests like a pair of doves , as you are . mesdames " ( to the dowagers ) , " you will take cold to a dead certainty , if you stay in this chill gallery any longer . "
and so , by dint of alternate coaxing and commanding , he contrived to get them all once more enclosed in their separate dormitories .
i did not wait to be ordered back to mine , but retreated unnoticed , as unnoticed i had left it .
not , however , to go to bed : on the contrary , i began and dressed myself carefully .
the sounds i had heard after the scream , and the words that had been uttered , had probably been heard only by me ; for they had proceeded from the room above mine : but they assured me that it was not a servant 's dream which had thus struck horror through the house ; and that the explanation mr. rochester had given was merely an invention framed to pacify his guests .
i dressed , then , to be ready for emergencies . when dressed , i sat a long time by the window looking out over the silent grounds and silvered fields and waiting for i knew not what .
it seemed to me that some event must follow the strange cry , struggle , and call .
no : stillness returned : each murmur and movement ceased gradually , and in about an hour thornfield hall was again as hushed as a desert . it seemed that sleep and night had resumed their empire .
meantime the moon declined : she was about to set . not liking to sit in the cold and darkness , i thought i would lie down on my bed , dressed as i was . i left the window , and moved with little noise across the carpet ; as i stooped to take off my shoes , a cautious hand tapped low at the door .
" am i wanted ? " i asked .
" are you up ? " asked the voice i expected to hear , viz . , my master 's .
" yes , sir . "
" and dressed ? "
" yes . "
" come out , then , quietly . "
i obeyed .
mr. rochester stood in the gallery holding a light .
" i want you , " he said : " come this way : take your time , and make no noise . "
my slippers were thin : i could walk the matted floor as softly as a cat .
he glided up the gallery and up the stairs , and stopped in the dark , low corridor of the fateful third storey : i had followed and stood at his side .
" have you a sponge in your room ? " he asked in a whisper .
" yes , sir . "
" have you any salts--volatile salts ? "
" yes . "
" go back and fetch both . "
i returned , sought the sponge on the washstand , the salts in my drawer , and once more retraced my steps .
he still waited ; he held a key in his hand : approaching one of the small , black doors , he put it in the lock ; he paused , and addressed me again .
" you don 't turn sick at the sight of blood ? "
" i think i shall not : i have never been tried yet . "
i felt a thrill while i answered him ; but no coldness , and no faintness .
" just give me your hand , " he said : " it will not do to risk a fainting fit . "
i put my fingers into his .
" warm and steady , " was his remark : he turned the key and opened the door .
i saw a room i remembered to have seen before , the day mrs. fairfax showed me over the house : it was hung with tapestry ; but the tapestry was now looped up in one part , and there was a door apparent , which had then been concealed . this door was open ; a light shone out of the room within : i heard thence a snarling , snatching sound , almost like a dog quarrelling .
mr. rochester , putting down his candle , said to me , " wait a minute , " and he went forward to the inner apartment .
he made some sort of arrangement without speaking , though i heard a low voice address him : he came out and closed the door behind him .
" here , jane ! " he said ; and i walked round to the other side of a large bed , which with its drawn curtains concealed a considerable portion of the chamber .
an easy-chair was near the bed-head : a man sat in it , dressed with the exception of his coat ; he was still ; his head leant back ; his eyes were closed .
mr. rochester held the candle over him ; i recognised in his pale and seemingly lifeless face--the stranger , mason : i saw too that his linen on one side , and one arm , was almost soaked in blood .
" hold the candle , " said mr. rochester , and i took it : he fetched a basin of water from the washstand : " hold that , " said he . i obeyed .
he took the sponge , dipped it in , and moistened the corpse-like face ; he asked for my smelling-bottle , and applied it to the nostrils .
mr. mason shortly unclosed his eyes ; he groaned . mr. rochester opened the shirt of the wounded man , whose arm and shoulder were bandaged : he sponged away blood , trickling fast down .
" is there immediate danger ? " murmured mr. mason .
" pooh ! no--a mere scratch . don 't be so overcome , man : bear up !
i 'll fetch a surgeon for you now , myself : you 'll be able to be removed by morning , i hope .
jane , " he continued .
" sir ? "
" i shall have to leave you in this room with this gentleman , for an hour , or perhaps two hours : you will sponge the blood as i do when it returns : if he feels faint , you will put the glass of water on that stand to his lips , and your salts to his nose . you will not speak to him on any pretext--and--richard , it will be at the peril of your life if you speak to her : open your lips--agitate yourself--and i 'll not answer for the consequences . "
again the poor man groaned ; he looked as if he dared not move ; fear , either of death or of something else , appeared almost to paralyse him .
mr. rochester put the now bloody sponge into my hand , and i proceeded to use it as he had done .
he watched me a second , then saying , " remember ! --no conversation , " he left the room .
i experienced a strange feeling as the key grated in the lock , and the sound of his retreating step ceased to be heard .
here then i was in the third storey , fastened into one of its mystic cells ; night around me ; a pale and bloody spectacle under my eyes and hands ; a murderess hardly separated from me by a single door : yes--that was appalling--the rest i could bear ; but i shuddered at the thought of grace poole bursting out upon me .
i must keep to my post , however . i must watch this ghastly countenance--these blue , still lips forbidden to unclose--these eyes now shut , now opening , now wandering through the room , now fixing on me , and ever glazed with the dulness of horror . i must dip my hand again and again in the basin of blood and water , and wipe away the trickling gore .
i must see the light of the unsnuffed candle wane on my employment ; the shadows darken on the wrought , antique tapestry round me , and grow black under the hangings of the vast old bed , and quiver strangely over the doors of a great cabinet opposite--whose front , divided into twelve panels , bore , in grim design , the heads of the twelve apostles , each enclosed in its separate panel as in a frame ; while above them at the top rose an ebon crucifix and a dying christ .
according as the shifting obscurity and flickering gleam hovered here or glanced there , it was now the bearded physician , luke , that bent his brow ; now st. john 's long hair that waved ; and anon the devilish face of judas , that grew out of the panel , and seemed gathering life and threatening a revelation of the arch-traitor--of satan himself--in his subordinate 's form .
amidst all this , i had to listen as well as watch : to listen for the movements of the wild beast or the fiend in yonder side den . but since mr. rochester 's visit it seemed spellbound : all the night i heard but three sounds at three long intervals , --a step creak , a momentary renewal of the snarling , canine noise , and a deep human groan .
then my own thoughts worried me . what crime was this that lived incarnate in this sequestered mansion , and could neither be expelled nor subdued by the owner ? --what mystery , that broke out now in fire and now in blood , at the deadest hours of night ?
what creature was it , that , masked in an ordinary woman 's face and shape , uttered the voice , now of a mocking demon , and anon of a carrion-seeking bird of prey ?
and this man i bent over--this commonplace , quiet stranger--how had he become involved in the web of horror ? and why had the fury flown at him ?
what made him seek this quarter of the house at an untimely season , when he should have been asleep in bed ?
i had heard mr. rochester assign him an apartment below--what brought him here !
and why , now , was he so tame under the violence or treachery done him ?
why did he so quietly submit to the concealment mr. rochester enforced ? why _ did _ mr. rochester enforce this concealment ?
his guest had been outraged , his own life on a former occasion had been hideously plotted against ; and both attempts he smothered in secrecy and sank in oblivion !
lastly , i saw mr. mason was submissive to mr. rochester ; that the impetuous will of the latter held complete sway over the inertness of the former : the few words which had passed between them assured me of this . it was evident that in their former intercourse , the passive disposition of the one had been habitually influenced by the active energy of the other : whence then had arisen mr. rochester 's dismay when he heard of mr. mason 's arrival ?
why had the mere name of this unresisting individual--whom his word now sufficed to control like a child--fallen on him , a few hours since , as a thunderbolt might fall on an oak ? oh !
i could not forget his look and his paleness when he whispered : " jane , i have got a blow--i have got a blow , jane . "
i could not forget how the arm had trembled which he rested on my shoulder : and it was no light matter which could thus bow the resolute spirit and thrill the vigorous frame of fairfax rochester .
" when will he come ? when will he come ? " i cried inwardly , as the night lingered and lingered--as my bleeding patient drooped , moaned , sickened : and neither day nor aid arrived .
i had , again and again , held the water to mason 's white lips ; again and again offered him the stimulating salts : my efforts seemed ineffectual : either bodily or mental suffering , or loss of blood , or all three combined , were fast prostrating his strength . he moaned so , and looked so weak , wild , and lost , i feared he was dying ; and i might not even speak to him .
the candle , wasted at last , went out ; as it expired , i perceived streaks of grey light edging the window curtains : dawn was then approaching .
presently i heard pilot bark far below , out of his distant kennel in the courtyard : hope revived .
nor was it unwarranted : in five minutes more the grating key , the yielding lock , warned me my watch was relieved . it could not have lasted more than two hours : many a week has seemed shorter .
mr. rochester entered , and with him the surgeon he had been to fetch .
" now , carter , be on the alert , " he said to this last : " i give you but half-an-hour for dressing the wound , fastening the bandages , getting the patient downstairs and all . "
" but is he fit to move , sir ? "
" no doubt of it ; it is nothing serious ; he is nervous , his spirits must be kept up .
come , set to work . "
mr. rochester drew back the thick curtain , drew up the holland blind , let in all the daylight he could ; and i was surprised and cheered to see how far dawn was advanced : what rosy streaks were beginning to brighten the east . then he approached mason , whom the surgeon was already handling .
" now , my good fellow , how are you ? " he asked .
" she 's done for me , i fear , " was the faint reply .
" not a whit ! --courage ! this day fortnight you 'll hardly be a pin the worse of it : you 've lost a little blood ; that 's all .
carter , assure him there 's no danger . "
" i can do that conscientiously , " said carter , who had now undone the bandages ; " only i wish i could have got here sooner : he would not have bled so much--but how is this ?
the flesh on the shoulder is torn as well as cut . this wound was not done with a knife : there have been teeth here ! "
" she bit me , " he murmured . " she worried me like a tigress , when rochester got the knife from her . "
" you should not have yielded : you should have grappled with her at once , " said mr. rochester .
" but under such circumstances , what could one do ? " returned mason .
" oh , it was frightful ! " he added , shuddering . " and i did not expect it : she looked so quiet at first . "
" i warned you , " was his friend 's answer ; " i said--be on your guard when you go near her . besides , you might have waited till to-morrow , and had me with you : it was mere folly to attempt the interview to-night , and alone . "
" i thought i could have done some good . "
" you thought ! you thought !
yes , it makes me impatient to hear you : but , however , you have suffered , and are likely to suffer enough for not taking my advice ; so i 'll say no more .
carter--hurry ! --hurry ! the sun will soon rise , and i must have him off . "
" directly , sir ; the shoulder is just bandaged .
i must look to this other wound in the arm : she has had her teeth here too , i think . "
" she sucked the blood : she said she 'd drain my heart , " said mason .
i saw mr. rochester shudder : a singularly marked expression of disgust , horror , hatred , warped his countenance almost to distortion ; but he only said--
" come , be silent , richard , and never mind her gibberish : don 't repeat it . "
" i wish i could forget it , " was the answer .
" you will when you are out of the country : when you get back to spanish town , you may think of her as dead and buried--or rather , you need not think of her at all . "
" impossible to forget this night ! "
" it is not impossible : have some energy , man .
you thought you were as dead as a herring two hours since , and you are all alive and talking now .
there ! --carter has done with you or nearly so ; i 'll make you decent in a trice .
jane " ( he turned to me for the first time since his re-entrance ) , " take this key : go down into my bedroom , and walk straight forward into my dressing-room : open the top drawer of the wardrobe and take out a clean shirt and neck-handkerchief : bring them here ; and be nimble . "
i went ; sought the repository he had mentioned , found the articles named , and returned with them .
" now , " said he , " go to the other side of the bed while i order his toilet ; but don 't leave the room : you may be wanted again . "
i retired as directed .
" was anybody stirring below when you went down , jane ? " inquired mr. rochester presently .
" no , sir ; all was very still . "
" we shall get you off cannily , dick : and it will be better , both for your sake , and for that of the poor creature in yonder .
i have striven long to avoid exposure , and i should not like it to come at last .
here , carter , help him on with his waist-coat .
where did you leave your furred cloak ? you can 't travel a mile without that , i know , in this damned cold climate .
in your room ? --jane , run down to mr. mason 's room , --the one next mine , --and fetch a cloak you will see there . "
again i ran , and again returned , bearing an immense mantle lined and edged with fur .
" now , i 've another errand for you , " said my untiring master ; " you must away to my room again .
what a mercy you are shod with velvet , jane ! --a clod-hopping messenger would never do at this juncture . you must open the middle drawer of my toilet-table and take out a little phial and a little glass you will find there , --quick ! "
i flew thither and back , bringing the desired vessels .
" that 's well !
now , doctor , i shall take the liberty of administering a dose myself , on my own responsibility .
i got this cordial at rome , of an italian charlatan--a fellow you would have kicked , carter . it is not a thing to be used indiscriminately , but it is good upon occasion : as now , for instance .
jane , a little water . "
he held out the tiny glass , and i half filled it from the water-bottle on the washstand .
" that will do ; --now wet the lip of the phial . "
i did so ; he measured twelve drops of a crimson liquid , and presented it to mason .
" drink , richard : it will give you the heart you lack , for an hour or so . "
" but will it hurt me ? --is it inflammatory ? "
" drink ! drink ! drink ! "
mr. mason obeyed , because it was evidently useless to resist .
he was dressed now : he still looked pale , but he was no longer gory and sullied .
mr. rochester let him sit three minutes after he had swallowed the liquid ; he then took his arm--
" now i am sure you can get on your feet , " he said-- " try . "
the patient rose .
" carter , take him under the other shoulder .
be of good cheer , richard ; step out--that 's it ! "
" i do feel better , " remarked mr. mason .
" i am sure you do .
now , jane , trip on before us away to the backstairs ; unbolt the side-passage door , and tell the driver of the post-chaise you will see in the yard--or just outside , for i told him not to drive his rattling wheels over the pavement--to be ready ; we are coming : and , jane , if any one is about , come to the foot of the stairs and hem . "
it was by this time half-past five , and the sun was on the point of rising ; but i found the kitchen still dark and silent . the side-passage door was fastened ; i opened it with as little noise as possible : all the yard was quiet ; but the gates stood wide open , and there was a post-chaise , with horses ready harnessed , and driver seated on the box , stationed outside .
i approached him , and said the gentlemen were coming ; he nodded : then i looked carefully round and listened .
the stillness of early morning slumbered everywhere ; the curtains were yet drawn over the servants ' chamber windows ; little birds were just twittering in the blossom-blanched orchard trees , whose boughs drooped like white garlands over the wall enclosing one side of the yard ; the carriage horses stamped from time to time in their closed stables : all else was still .
the gentlemen now appeared .
mason , supported by mr. rochester and the surgeon , seemed to walk with tolerable ease : they assisted him into the chaise ; carter followed .
" take care of him , " said mr. rochester to the latter , " and keep him at your house till he is quite well : i shall ride over in a day or two to see how he gets on .
richard , how is it with you ? "
" the fresh air revives me , fairfax . "
" leave the window open on his side , carter ; there is no wind--good-bye , dick . "
" fairfax-- "
" well what is it ? "
" let her be taken care of ; let her be treated as tenderly as may be : let her-- " he stopped and burst into tears .
" i do my best ; and have done it , and will do it , " was the answer : he shut up the chaise door , and the vehicle drove away .
" yet would to god there was an end of all this ! " added mr. rochester , as he closed and barred the heavy yard-gates .
this done , he moved with slow step and abstracted air towards a door in the wall bordering the orchard . i , supposing he had done with me , prepared to return to the house ; again , however , i heard him call " jane ! "
he had opened feel portal and stood at it , waiting for me .
" come where there is some freshness , for a few moments , " he said ; " that house is a mere dungeon : don 't you feel it so ? "
" it seems to me a splendid mansion , sir . "
" the glamour of inexperience is over your eyes , " he answered ; " and you see it through a charmed medium : you cannot discern that the gilding is slime and the silk draperies cobwebs ; that the marble is sordid slate , and the polished woods mere refuse chips and scaly bark .
now _ here _ " ( he pointed to the leafy enclosure we had entered ) " all is real , sweet , and pure . "
he strayed down a walk edged with box , with apple trees , pear trees , and cherry trees on one side , and a border on the other full of all sorts of old-fashioned flowers , stocks , sweet-williams , primroses , pansies , mingled with southernwood , sweet-briar , and various fragrant herbs . they were fresh now as a succession of april showers and gleams , followed by a lovely spring morning , could make them : the sun was just entering the dappled east , and his light illumined the wreathed and dewy orchard trees and shone down the quiet walks under them .
" jane , will you have a flower ? "
he gathered a half-blown rose , the first on the bush , and offered it to me . " thank you , sir . "
" do you like this sunrise , jane ?
that sky with its high and light clouds which are sure to melt away as the day waxes warm--this placid and balmly atmosphere ? "
" i do , very much . "
" you have passed a strange night , jane . "
" yes , sir . "
" and it has made you look pale--were you afraid when i left you alone with mason ? "
" i was afraid of some one coming out of the inner room . "
" but i had fastened the door--i had the key in my pocket : i should have been a careless shepherd if i had left a lamb--my pet lamb--so near a wolf 's den , unguarded : you were safe . "
" will grace poole live here still , sir ? "
" oh yes ! don 't trouble your head about her--put the thing out of your thoughts . "
" yet it seems to me your life is hardly secure while she stays . "
" never fear--i will take care of myself . "
" is the danger you apprehended last night gone by now , sir ? "
" i cannot vouch for that till mason is out of england : nor even then . to live , for me , jane , is to stand on a crater-crust which may crack and spue fire any day . " " but mr. mason seems a man easily led .
your influence , sir , is evidently potent with him : he will never set you at defiance or wilfully injure you . "
" oh , no !
mason will not defy me ; nor , knowing it , will he hurt me--but , unintentionally , he might in a moment , by one careless word , deprive me , if not of life , yet for ever of happiness . "
" tell him to be cautious , sir : let him know what you fear , and show him how to avert the danger . "
he laughed sardonically , hastily took my hand , and as hastily threw it from him .
" if i could do that , simpleton , where would the danger be ? annihilated in a moment . ever since i have known mason , i have only had to say to him ' do that , ' and the thing has been done .
but i cannot give him orders in this case : i cannot say ' beware of harming me , richard ; ' for it is imperative that i should keep him ignorant that harm to me is possible .
now you look puzzled ; and i will puzzle you further .
you are my little friend , are you not ? "
" i like to serve you , sir , and to obey you in all that is right . " " precisely : i see you do .
i see genuine contentment in your gait and mien , your eye and face , when you are helping me and pleasing me--working for me , and with me , in , as you characteristically say , ' _ all that is right _ : ' for if i bid you do what you thought wrong , there would be no light-footed running , no neat-handed alacrity , no lively glance and animated complexion .
my friend would then turn to me , quiet and pale , and would say , ' no , sir ; that is impossible : i cannot do it , because it is wrong ; ' and would become immutable as a fixed star .
well , you too have power over me , and may injure me : yet i dare not show you where i am vulnerable , lest , faithful and friendly as you are , you should transfix me at once . "
" if you have no more to fear from mr. mason than you have from me , sir , you are very safe . "
" god grant it may be so !
here , jane , is an arbour ; sit down . "
the arbour was an arch in the wall , lined with ivy ; it contained a rustic seat .
mr. rochester took it , leaving room , however , for me : but i stood before him .
" sit , " he said ; " the bench is long enough for two .
you don 't hesitate to take a place at my side , do you ? is that wrong , jane ? "
i answered him by assuming it : to refuse would , i felt , have been unwise .
" now , my little friend , while the sun drinks the dew--while all the flowers in this old garden awake and expand , and the birds fetch their young ones ' breakfast out of the thornfield , and the early bees do their first spell of work--i 'll put a case to you , which you must endeavour to suppose your own : but first , look at me , and tell me you are at ease , and not fearing that i err in detaining you , or that you err in staying . "
" no , sir ; i am content . "
" well then , jane , call to aid your fancy : --suppose you were no longer a girl well reared and disciplined , but a wild boy indulged from childhood upwards ; imagine yourself in a remote foreign land ; conceive that you there commit a capital error , no matter of what nature or from what motives , but one whose consequences must follow you through life and taint all your existence .
mind , i don 't say a _ crime _ ; i am not speaking of shedding of blood or any other guilty act , which might make the perpetrator amenable to the law : my word is _ error _ .
the results of what you have done become in time to you utterly insupportable ; you take measures to obtain relief : unusual measures , but neither unlawful nor culpable . still you are miserable ; for hope has quitted you on the very confines of life : your sun at noon darkens in an eclipse , which you feel will not leave it till the time of setting .
bitter and base associations have become the sole food of your memory : you wander here and there , seeking rest in exile : happiness in pleasure--i mean in heartless , sensual pleasure--such as dulls intellect and blights feeling .
heart-weary and soul-withered , you come home after years of voluntary banishment : you make a new acquaintance--how or where no matter : you find in this stranger much of the good and bright qualities which you have sought for twenty years , and never before encountered ; and they are all fresh , healthy , without soil and without taint . such society revives , regenerates : you feel better days come back--higher wishes , purer feelings ; you desire to recommence your life , and to spend what remains to you of days in a way more worthy of an immortal being .
to attain this end , are you justified in overleaping an obstacle of custom--a mere conventional impediment which neither your conscience sanctifies nor your judgment approves ? "
he paused for an answer :
and what was i to say ?
oh , for some good spirit to suggest a judicious and satisfactory response !
vain aspiration ! the west wind whispered in the ivy round me ; but no gentle ariel borrowed its breath as a medium of speech : the birds sang in the tree-tops ; but their song , however sweet , was inarticulate .
again mr. rochester propounded his query :
" is the wandering and sinful , but now rest-seeking and repentant , man justified in daring the world 's opinion , in order to attach to him for ever this gentle , gracious , genial stranger , thereby securing his own peace of mind and regeneration of life ? "
" sir , " i answered , " a wanderer 's repose or a sinner 's reformation should never depend on a fellow-creature .
men and women die ; philosophers falter in wisdom , and christians in goodness : if any one you know has suffered and erred , let him look higher than his equals for strength to amend and solace to heal . "
" but the instrument--the instrument !
god , who does the work , ordains the instrument .
i have myself--i tell it you without parable--been a worldly , dissipated , restless man ; and i believe i have found the instrument for my cure in-- "
he paused : the birds went on carolling , the leaves lightly rustling . i almost wondered they did not check their songs and whispers to catch the suspended revelation ; but they would have had to wait many minutes--so long was the silence protracted .
at last i looked up at the tardy speaker : he was looking eagerly at me .
" little friend , " said he , in quite a changed tone--while his face changed too , losing all its softness and gravity , and becoming harsh and sarcastic-- " you have noticed my tender penchant for miss ingram : don 't you think if i married her she would regenerate me with a vengeance ? "
he got up instantly , went quite to the other end of the walk , and when he came back he was humming a tune .
" jane , jane , " said he , stopping before me , " you are quite pale with your vigils : don 't you curse me for disturbing your rest ? "
" curse you ? no , sir . "
" shake hands in confirmation of the word .
what cold fingers ! they were warmer last night when i touched them at the door of the mysterious chamber .
jane , when will you watch with me again ? "
" whenever i can be useful , sir . "
" for instance , the night before i am married ! i am sure i shall not be able to sleep . will you promise to sit up with me to bear me company ? to you i can talk of my lovely one : for now you have seen her and know her . "
" yes , sir . "
" she 's a rare one , is she not , jane ? "
" yes , sir . "
" a strapper--a real strapper , jane : big , brown , and buxom ; with hair just such as the ladies of carthage must have had .
bless me ! there 's dent and lynn in the stables !
go in by the shrubbery , through that wicket . " as i went one way , he went another , and i heard him in the yard , saying cheerfully--
" mason got the start of you all this morning ; he was gone before sunrise : i rose at four to see him off . "
chapter xxi
presentiments are strange things ! and so are sympathies ; and so are signs ; and the three combined make one mystery to which humanity has not yet found the key . i never laughed at presentiments in my life , because i have had strange ones of my own . sympathies , i believe , exist ( for instance , between far-distant , long-absent , wholly estranged relatives asserting , notwithstanding their alienation , the unity of the source to which each traces his origin ) whose workings baffle mortal comprehension . and signs , for aught we know , may be but the sympathies of nature with man .
when i was a little girl , only six years old , i one night heard bessie leaven say to martha abbot that she had been dreaming about a little child ; and that to dream of children was a sure sign of trouble , either to one 's self or one 's kin . the saying might have worn out of my memory , had not a circumstance immediately followed which served indelibly to fix it there .
the next day bessie was sent for home to the deathbed of her little sister .
of late i had often recalled this saying and this incident ; for during the past week scarcely a night had gone over my couch that had not brought with it a dream of an infant , which i sometimes hushed in my arms , sometimes dandled on my knee , sometimes watched playing with daisies on a lawn , or again , dabbling its hands in running water .
it was a wailing child this night , and a laughing one the next : now it nestled close to me , and now it ran from me ; but whatever mood the apparition evinced , whatever aspect it wore , it failed not for seven successive nights to meet me the moment i entered the land of slumber .
i did not like this iteration of one idea--this strange recurrence of one image , and i grew nervous as bedtime approached and the hour of the vision drew near .
it was from companionship with this baby-phantom i had been roused on that moonlight night when i heard the cry ; and it was on the afternoon of the day following i was summoned downstairs by a message that some one wanted me in mrs. fairfax 's room . on repairing thither , i found a man waiting for me , having the appearance of a gentleman 's servant : he was dressed in deep mourning , and the hat he held in his hand was surrounded with a crape band .
" i daresay you hardly remember me , miss , " he said , rising as i entered ; " but my name is leaven : i lived coachman with mrs. reed when you were at gateshead , eight or nine years since , and i live there still . "
" oh , robert ! how do you do ?
i remember you very well : you used to give me a ride sometimes on miss georgiana 's bay pony .
and how is bessie ? you are married to bessie ? "
" yes , miss : my wife is very hearty , thank you ; she brought me another little one about two months since--we have three now--and both mother and child are thriving . "
" and are the family well at the house , robert ? "
" i am sorry i can 't give you better news of them , miss : they are very badly at present--in great trouble . "
" i hope no one is dead , " i said , glancing at his black dress .
he too looked down at the crape round his hat and replied-- " mr. john died yesterday was a week , at his chambers in london . "
" mr. john ? "
" yes . "
" and how does his mother bear it ? "
" why , you see , miss eyre , it is not a common mishap : his life has been very wild : these last three years he gave himself up to strange ways , and his death was shocking . "
" i heard from bessie he was not doing well . "
" doing well ! he could not do worse : he ruined his health and his estate amongst the worst men and the worst women .
he got into debt and into jail : his mother helped him out twice , but as soon as he was free he returned to his old companions and habits . his head was not strong : the knaves he lived amongst fooled him beyond anything i ever heard .
he came down to gateshead about three weeks ago and wanted missis to give up all to him . missis refused : her means have long been much reduced by his extravagance ; so he went back again , and the next news was that he was dead .
how he died , god knows ! --they say he killed himself . "
i was silent : the things were frightful .
robert leaven resumed-- " missis had been out of health herself for some time : she had got very stout , but was not strong with it ; and the loss of money and fear of poverty were quite breaking her down .
the information about mr. john 's death and the manner of it came too suddenly : it brought on a stroke .
she was three days without speaking ; but last tuesday she seemed rather better : she appeared as if she wanted to say something , and kept making signs to my wife and mumbling . it was only yesterday morning , however , that bessie understood she was pronouncing your name ; and at last she made out the words , ' bring jane--fetch jane eyre : i want to speak to her . '
bessie is not sure whether she is in her right mind , or means anything by the words ; but she told miss reed and miss georgiana , and advised them to send for you .
the young ladies put it off at first ; but their mother grew so restless , and said , ' jane , jane , ' so many times , that at last they consented .
i left gateshead yesterday : and if you can get ready , miss , i should like to take you back with me early to-morrow morning . "
" yes , robert , i shall be ready : it seems to me that i ought to go . "
" i think so too , miss . bessie said she was sure you would not refuse : but i suppose you will have to ask leave before you can get off ? "
" yes ; and i will do it now ; " and having directed him to the servants ' hall , and recommended him to the care of john 's wife , and the attentions of john himself , i went in search of mr. rochester .
he was not in any of the lower rooms ; he was not in the yard , the stables , or the grounds .
i asked mrs. fairfax if she had seen him ; --yes : she believed he was playing billiards with miss ingram .
to the billiard- room i hastened : the click of balls and the hum of voices resounded thence ; mr. rochester , miss ingram , the two misses eshton , and their admirers , were all busied in the game . it required some courage to disturb so interesting a party ; my errand , however , was one i could not defer , so i approached the master where he stood at miss ingram 's side .
she turned as i drew near , and looked at me haughtily : her eyes seemed to demand , " what can the creeping creature want now ? " and when i said , in a low voice , " mr. rochester , " she made a movement as if tempted to order me away .
i remember her appearance at the moment--it was very graceful and very striking : she wore a morning robe of sky-blue crape ; a gauzy azure scarf was twisted in her hair . she had been all animation with the game , and irritated pride did not lower the expression of her haughty lineaments .
" does that person want you ? " she inquired of mr. rochester ; and mr. rochester turned to see who the " person " was .
he made a curious grimace--one of his strange and equivocal demonstrations--threw down his cue and followed me from the room .
" well , jane ? " he said , as he rested his back against the schoolroom door , which he had shut .
" if you please , sir , i want leave of absence for a week or two . "
" what to do ? --where to go ? "
" to see a sick lady who has sent for me . "
" what sick lady ? --where does she live ? "
" at gateshead ; in ---shire . "
" -shire ? that is a hundred miles off !
who may she be that sends for people to see her that distance ? "
" her name is reed , sir--mrs . reed . "
" reed of gateshead ?
there was a reed of gateshead , a magistrate . "
" it is his widow , sir . "
" and what have you to do with her ? how do you know her ? "
" mr. reed was my uncle--my mother 's brother . "
" the deuce he was ! you never told me that before : you always said you had no relations . "
" none that would own me , sir . mr. reed is dead , and his wife cast me off . "
" why ? "
" because i was poor , and burdensome , and she disliked me . "
" but reed left children ? --you must have cousins ?
sir george lynn was talking of a reed of gateshead yesterday , who , he said , was one of the veriest rascals on town ; and ingram was mentioning a georgiana reed of the same place , who was much admired for her beauty a season or two ago in london . "
" john reed is dead , too , sir : he ruined himself and half-ruined his family , and is supposed to have committed suicide . the news so shocked his mother that it brought on an apoplectic attack . "
" and what good can you do her ? nonsense , jane !
i would never think of running a hundred miles to see an old lady who will , perhaps , be dead before you reach her : besides , you say she cast you off . "
" yes , sir , but that is long ago ; and when her circumstances were very different : i could not be easy to neglect her wishes now . "
" how long will you stay ? "
" as short a time as possible , sir . "
" promise me only to stay a week-- "
" i had better not pass my word : i might be obliged to break it . "
" at all events you _ will _ come back : you will not be induced under any pretext to take up a permanent residence with her ? "
" oh , no ! i shall certainly return if all be well . "
" and who goes with you ? you don 't travel a hundred miles alone . "
" no , sir , she has sent her coachman . "
" a person to be trusted ? "
" yes , sir , he has lived ten years in the family . "
mr. rochester meditated .
" when do you wish to go ? "
" early to-morrow morning , sir . "
" well , you must have some money ; you can 't travel without money , and i daresay you have not much : i have given you no salary yet .
how much have you in the world , jane ? " he asked , smiling .
i drew out my purse ; a meagre thing it was .
" five shillings , sir . "
he took the purse , poured the hoard into his palm , and chuckled over it as if its scantiness amused him .
soon he produced his pocket-book : " here , " said he , offering me a note ; it was fifty pounds , and he owed me but fifteen .
i told him i had no change .
" i don 't want change ; you know that . take your wages . "
i declined accepting more than was my due .
he scowled at first ; then , as if recollecting something , he said-- " right , right !
better not give you all now : you would , perhaps , stay away three months if you had fifty pounds .
there are ten ; is it not plenty ? "
" yes , sir , but now you owe me five . "
" come back for it , then ; i am your banker for forty pounds . "
" mr. rochester , i may as well mention another matter of business to you while i have the opportunity . "
" matter of business ? i am curious to hear it . "
" you have as good as informed me , sir , that you are going shortly to be married ? "
" yes ; what then ? "
" in that case , sir , adele ought to go to school : i am sure you will perceive the necessity of it . "
" to get her out of my bride 's way , who might otherwise walk over her rather too emphatically ?
there 's sense in the suggestion ; not a doubt of it . adele , as you say , must go to school ; and you , of course , must march straight to--the devil ? "
" i hope not , sir ; but i must seek another situation somewhere . "
" in course ! " he exclaimed , with a twang of voice and a distortion of features equally fantastic and ludicrous .
he looked at me some minutes .
" and old madam reed , or the misses , her daughters , will be solicited by you to seek a place , i suppose ? "
" no , sir ; i am not on such terms with my relatives as would justify me in asking favours of them--but i shall advertise . "
" you shall walk up the pyramids of egypt ! " he growled . " at your peril you advertise !
i wish i had only offered you a sovereign instead of ten pounds .
give me back nine pounds , jane ; i 've a use for it . "
" and so have i , sir , " i returned , putting my hands and my purse behind me . " i could not spare the money on any account . "
" little niggard ! " said he , " refusing me a pecuniary request !
give me five pounds , jane . "
" not five shillings , sir ; nor five pence . "
" just let me look at the cash . "
" no , sir ; you are not to be trusted . "
" jane ! "
" sir ? "
" promise me one thing . "
" i 'll promise you anything , sir , that i think i am likely to perform . "
" not to advertise : and to trust this quest of a situation to me . i 'll find you one in time . "
" i shall be glad so to do , sir , if you , in your turn , will promise that i and adele shall be both safe out of the house before your bride enters it . "
" very well ! very well ! i 'll pledge my word on it .
" yes , sir ; early . "
" shall you come down to the drawing-room after dinner ? "
" no , sir , i must prepare for the journey . "
" then you and i must bid good-bye for a little while ? "
" i suppose so , sir . "
" and how do people perform that ceremony of parting , jane ?
teach me ; i 'm not quite up to it . "
" they say , farewell , or any other form they prefer . "
" then say it . "
" farewell , mr. rochester , for the present . "
" what must i say ? "
" the same , if you like , sir . "
" farewell , miss eyre , for the present ; is that all ? "
" yes ? "
" it seems stingy , to my notions , and dry , and unfriendly . i should like something else : a little addition to the rite . if one shook hands , for instance ; but no--that would not content me either .
so you 'll do no more than say farewell , jane ? "
" it is enough , sir : as much good-will may be conveyed in one hearty word as in many . "
" very likely ; but it is blank and cool-- ' farewell . ' "
" how long is he going to stand with his back against that door ? " i asked myself ; " i want to commence my packing . "
the dinner-bell rang , and suddenly away he bolted , without another syllable : i saw him no more during the day , and was off before he had risen in the morning .
i reached the lodge at gateshead about five o 'clock in the afternoon of the first of may : i stepped in there before going up to the hall .
it was very clean and neat : the ornamental windows were hung with little white curtains ; the floor was spotless ; the grate and fire-irons were burnished bright , and the fire burnt clear . bessie sat on the hearth , nursing her last-born , and robert and his sister played quietly in a corner .
" bless you ! --i knew you would come ! " exclaimed mrs. leaven , as i entered .
" yes , bessie , " said i , after i had kissed her ; " and i trust i am not too late .
how is mrs. reed ? --alive still , i hope . "
" yes , she is alive ; and more sensible and collected than she was .
the doctor says she may linger a week or two yet ; but he hardly thinks she will finally recover . "
" has she mentioned me lately ? "
" she was talking of you only this morning , and wishing you would come , but she is sleeping now , or was ten minutes ago , when i was up at the house .
she generally lies in a kind of lethargy all the afternoon , and wakes up about six or seven . will you rest yourself here an hour , miss , and then i will go up with you ? "
robert here entered , and bessie laid her sleeping child in the cradle and went to welcome him : afterwards she insisted on my taking off my bonnet and having some tea ; for she said i looked pale and tired .
i was glad to accept her hospitality ; and i submitted to be relieved of my travelling garb just as passively as i used to let her undress me when a child .
old times crowded fast back on me as i watched her bustling about--setting out the tea-tray with her best china , cutting bread and butter , toasting a tea-cake , and , between whiles , giving little robert or jane an occasional tap or push , just as she used to give me in former days . bessie had retained her quick temper as well as her light foot and good looks .
tea ready , i was going to approach the table ; but she desired me to sit still , quite in her old peremptory tones . i must be served at the fireside , she said ; and she placed before me a little round stand with my cup and a plate of toast , absolutely as she used to accommodate me with some privately purloined dainty on a nursery chair : and i smiled and obeyed her as in bygone days .
she wanted to know if i was happy at thornfield hall , and what sort of a person the mistress was ; and when i told her there was only a master , whether he was a nice gentleman , and if i liked him .
i told her he was rather an ugly man , but quite a gentleman ; and that he treated me kindly , and i was content . then i went on to describe to her the gay company that had lately been staying at the house ; and to these details bessie listened with interest : they were precisely of the kind she relished .
in such conversation an hour was soon gone : bessie restored to me my bonnet , & c . , and , accompanied by her , i quitted the lodge for the hall .
it was also accompanied by her that i had , nearly nine years ago , walked down the path i was now ascending . on a dark , misty , raw morning in january , i had left a hostile roof with a desperate and embittered heart--a sense of outlawry and almost of reprobation--to seek the chilly harbourage of lowood : that bourne so far away and unexplored .
the same hostile roof now again rose before me : my prospects were doubtful yet ; and i had yet an aching heart . i still felt as a wanderer on the face of the earth ; but i experienced firmer trust in myself and my own powers , and less withering dread of oppression . the gaping wound of my wrongs , too , was now quite healed ; and the flame of resentment extinguished .
" you shall go into the breakfast-room first , " said bessie , as she preceded me through the hall ; " the young ladies will be there . "
in another moment i was within that apartment .
there was every article of furniture looking just as it did on the morning i was first introduced to mr. brocklehurst : the very rug he had stood upon still covered the hearth . glancing at the bookcases , i thought i could distinguish the two volumes of bewick 's british birds occupying their old place on the third shelf , and gulliver 's travels and the arabian nights ranged just above . the inanimate objects were not changed ; but the living things had altered past recognition .
two young ladies appeared before me ; one very tall , almost as tall as miss ingram--very thin too , with a sallow face and severe mien . there was something ascetic in her look , which was augmented by the extreme plainness of a straight-skirted , black , stuff dress , a starched linen collar , hair combed away from the temples , and the nun-like ornament of a string of ebony beads and a crucifix .
this i felt sure was eliza , though i could trace little resemblance to her former self in that elongated and colourless visage .
the other was as certainly georgiana : but not the georgiana i remembered--the slim and fairy-like girl of eleven .
this was a full-blown , very plump damsel , fair as waxwork , with handsome and regular features , languishing blue eyes , and ringleted yellow hair .
the hue of her dress was black too ; but its fashion was so different from her sister 's--so much more flowing and becoming--it looked as stylish as the other 's looked puritanical .
in each of the sisters there was one trait of the mother--and only one ; the thin and pallid elder daughter had her parent 's cairngorm eye : the blooming and luxuriant younger girl had her contour of jaw and chin--perhaps a little softened , but still imparting an indescribable hardness to the countenance otherwise so voluptuous and buxom .
both ladies , as i advanced , rose to welcome me , and both addressed me by the name of " miss eyre . "
eliza 's greeting was delivered in a short , abrupt voice , without a smile ; and then she sat down again , fixed her eyes on the fire , and seemed to forget me .
georgiana added to her " how d 'ye do ? " several commonplaces about my journey , the weather , and so on , uttered in rather a drawling tone : and accompanied by sundry side-glances that measured me from head to foot--now traversing the folds of my drab merino pelisse , and now lingering on the plain trimming of my cottage bonnet .
young ladies have a remarkable way of letting you know that they think you a " quiz " without actually saying the words . a certain superciliousness of look , coolness of manner , nonchalance of tone , express fully their sentiments on the point , without committing them by any positive rudeness in word or deed .
a sneer , however , whether covert or open , had now no longer that power over me it once possessed : as i sat between my cousins , i was surprised to find how easy i felt under the total neglect of the one and the semi- sarcastic attentions of the other--eliza did not mortify , nor georgiana ruffle me .
the fact was , i had other things to think about ; within the last few months feelings had been stirred in me so much more potent than any they could raise--pains and pleasures so much more acute and exquisite had been excited than any it was in their power to inflict or bestow--that their airs gave me no concern either for good or bad .
" how is mrs. reed ? " i asked soon , looking calmly at georgiana , who thought fit to bridle at the direct address , as if it were an unexpected liberty .
" mrs. reed ? ah ! mama , you mean ; she is extremely poorly : i doubt if you can see her to-night . "
" if , " said i , " you would just step upstairs and tell her i am come , i should be much obliged to you . "
georgiana almost started , and she opened her blue eyes wild and wide .
" i know she had a particular wish to see me , " i added , " and i would not defer attending to her desire longer than is absolutely necessary . "
" mama dislikes being disturbed in an evening , " remarked eliza .
i soon rose , quietly took off my bonnet and gloves , uninvited , and said i would just step out to bessie--who was , i dared say , in the kitchen--and ask her to ascertain whether mrs. reed was disposed to receive me or not to- night .
i went , and having found bessie and despatched her on my errand , i proceeded to take further measures .
it had heretofore been my habit always to shrink from arrogance : received as i had been to-day , i should , a year ago , have resolved to quit gateshead the very next morning ; now , it was disclosed to me all at once that that would be a foolish plan .
i had taken a journey of a hundred miles to see my aunt , and i must stay with her till she was better--or dead : as to her daughters ' pride or folly , i must put it on one side , make myself independent of it .
so i addressed the housekeeper ; asked her to show me a room , told her i should probably be a visitor here for a week or two , had my trunk conveyed to my chamber , and followed it thither myself : i met bessie on the landing .
" missis is awake , " said she ; " i have told her you are here : come and let us see if she will know you . "
i did not need to be guided to the well-known room , to which i had so often been summoned for chastisement or reprimand in former days . i hastened before bessie ; i softly opened the door : a shaded light stood on the table , for it was now getting dark .
there was the great four-post bed with amber hangings as of old ; there the toilet-table , the armchair , and the footstool , at which i had a hundred times been sentenced to kneel , to ask pardon for offences by me uncommitted .
i looked into a certain corner near , half-expecting to see the slim outline of a once dreaded switch which used to lurk there , waiting to leap out imp-like and lace my quivering palm or shrinking neck . i approached the bed ; i opened the curtains and leant over the high-piled pillows .
well did i remember mrs. reed 's face , and i eagerly sought the familiar image .
it is a happy thing that time quells the longings of vengeance and hushes the promptings of rage and aversion . i had left this woman in bitterness and hate , and i came back to her now with no other emotion than a sort of ruth for her great sufferings , and a strong yearning to forget and forgive all injuries--to be reconciled and clasp hands in amity .
the well-known face was there : stern , relentless as ever--there was that peculiar eye which nothing could melt , and the somewhat raised , imperious , despotic eyebrow .
how often had it lowered on me menace and hate ! and how the recollection of childhood 's terrors and sorrows revived as i traced its harsh line now ! and yet i stooped down and kissed her : she looked at me .
" is this jane eyre ? " she said .
" yes , aunt reed . how are you , dear aunt ? " i had once vowed that i would never call her aunt again : i thought it no sin to forget and break that vow now .
my fingers had fastened on her hand which lay outside the sheet : had she pressed mine kindly , i should at that moment have experienced true pleasure . but unimpressionable natures are not so soon softened , nor are natural antipathies so readily eradicated . mrs. reed took her hand away , and , turning her face rather from me , she remarked that the night was warm .
again she regarded me so icily , i felt at once that her opinion of me--her feeling towards me--was unchanged and unchangeable .
i knew by her stony eye--opaque to tenderness , indissoluble to tears--that she was resolved to consider me bad to the last ; because to believe me good would give her no generous pleasure : only a sense of mortification .
i felt pain , and then i felt ire ; and then i felt a determination to subdue her--to be her mistress in spite both of her nature and her will .
my tears had risen , just as in childhood : i ordered them back to their source . i brought a chair to the bed-head : i sat down and leaned over the pillow .
" you sent for me , " i said , " and i am here ; and it is my intention to stay till i see how you get on . "
" oh , of course !
you have seen my daughters ? "
" yes . "
" well , you may tell them i wish you to stay till i can talk some things over with you i have on my mind : to-night it is too late , and i have a difficulty in recalling them .
but there was something i wished to say--let me see-- " the wandering look and changed utterance told what wreck had taken place in her once vigorous frame . turning restlessly , she drew the bedclothes round her ; my elbow , resting on a corner of the quilt , fixed it down : she was at once irritated .
" sit up ! " said she ; " don 't annoy me with holding the clothes fast .
are you jane eyre ? "
" i have had more trouble with that child than any one would believe .
such a burden to be left on my hands--and so much annoyance as she caused me , daily and hourly , with her incomprehensible disposition , and her sudden starts of temper , and her continual , unnatural watchings of one 's movements !
i declare she talked to me once like something mad , or like a fiend--no child ever spoke or looked as she did ; i was glad to get her away from the house .
what did they do with her at lowood ?
the fever broke out there , and many of the pupils died . she , however , did not die : but i said she did--i wish she had died ! "
" a strange wish , mrs. reed ; why do you hate her so ? "
" i had a dislike to her mother always ; for she was my husband 's only sister , and a great favourite with him : he opposed the family 's disowning her when she made her low marriage ; and when news came of her death , he wept like a simpleton .
he would send for the baby ; though i entreated him rather to put it out to nurse and pay for its maintenance . i hated it the first time i set my eyes on it--a sickly , whining , pining thing ! it would wail in its cradle all night long--not screaming heartily like any other child , but whimpering and moaning .
reed pitied it ; and he used to nurse it and notice it as if it had been his own : more , indeed , than he ever noticed his own at that age . he would try to make my children friendly to the little beggar : the darlings could not bear it , and he was angry with them when they showed their dislike .
in his last illness , he had it brought continually to his bedside ; and but an hour before he died , he bound me by vow to keep the creature .
i would as soon have been charged with a pauper brat out of a workhouse : but he was weak , naturally weak .
john does not at all resemble his father , and i am glad of it : john is like me and like my brothers--he is quite a gibson .
oh , i wish he would cease tormenting me with letters for money ? i have no more money to give him : we are getting poor .
i must send away half the servants and shut up part of the house ; or let it off . i can never submit to do that--yet how are we to get on ? two-thirds of my income goes in paying the interest of mortgages .
john gambles dreadfully , and always loses--poor boy ! he is beset by sharpers : john is sunk and degraded--his look is frightful--i feel ashamed for him when i see him . "
she was getting much excited .
" i think i had better leave her now , " said i to bessie , who stood on the other side of the bed .
" perhaps you had , miss : but she often talks in this way towards night--in the morning she is calmer . "
i rose .
" stop ! " exclaimed mrs. reed , " there is another thing i wished to say . he threatens me--he continually threatens me with his own death , or mine : and i dream sometimes that i see him laid out with a great wound in his throat , or with a swollen and blackened face . i am come to a strange pass : i have heavy troubles .
what is to be done ?
how is the money to be had ? "
bessie now endeavoured to persuade her to take a sedative draught : she succeeded with difficulty .
soon after , mrs. reed grew more composed , and sank into a dozing state . i then left her .
more than ten days elapsed before i had again any conversation with her . she continued either delirious or lethargic ; and the doctor forbade everything which could painfully excite her .
meantime , i got on as well as i could with georgiana and eliza .
they were very cold , indeed , at first . eliza would sit half the day sewing , reading , or writing , and scarcely utter a word either to me or her sister .
georgiana would chatter nonsense to her canary bird by the hour , and take no notice of me . but i was determined not to seem at a loss for occupation or amusement : i had brought my drawing materials with me , and they served me for both .
provided with a case of pencils , and some sheets of paper , i used to take a seat apart from them , near the window , and busy myself in sketching fancy vignettes , representing any scene that happened momentarily to shape itself in the ever-shifting kaleidoscope of imagination : a glimpse of sea between two rocks ; the rising moon , and a ship crossing its disk ; a group of reeds and water-flags , and a naiad 's head , crowned with lotus- flowers , rising out of them ; an elf sitting in a hedge-sparrow 's nest , under a wreath of hawthorn-bloom .
one morning i fell to sketching a face : what sort of a face it was to be , i did not care or know . i took a soft black pencil , gave it a broad point , and worked away . soon i had traced on the paper a broad and prominent forehead and a square lower outline of visage : that contour gave me pleasure ; my fingers proceeded actively to fill it with features . strongly-marked horizontal eyebrows must be traced under that brow ; then followed , naturally , a well-defined nose , with a straight ridge and full nostrils ; then a flexible-looking mouth , by no means narrow ; then a firm chin , with a decided cleft down the middle of it : of course , some black whiskers were wanted , and some jetty hair , tufted on the temples , and waved above the forehead .
now for the eyes : i had left them to the last , because they required the most careful working .
i drew them large ; i shaped them well : the eyelashes i traced long and sombre ; the irids lustrous and large .
" good ! but not quite the thing , " i thought , as i surveyed the effect : " they want more force and spirit ; " and i wrought the shades blacker , that the lights might flash more brilliantly--a happy touch or two secured success .
there , i had a friend 's face under my gaze ; and what did it signify that those young ladies turned their backs on me ?
i looked at it ; i smiled at the speaking likeness : i was absorbed and content .
" is that a portrait of some one you know ? " asked eliza , who had approached me unnoticed .
i responded that it was merely a fancy head , and hurried it beneath the other sheets .
of course , i lied : it was , in fact , a very faithful representation of mr. rochester . but what was that to her , or to any one but myself ?
georgiana also advanced to look . the other drawings pleased her much , but she called that " an ugly man . "
they both seemed surprised at my skill .
i offered to sketch their portraits ; and each , in turn , sat for a pencil outline .
then georgiana produced her album .
i promised to contribute a water-colour drawing : this put her at once into good humour .
she proposed a walk in the grounds . before we had been out two hours , we were deep in a confidential conversation : she had favoured me with a description of the brilliant winter she had spent in london two seasons ago--of the admiration she had there excited--the attention she had received ; and i even got hints of the titled conquest she had made .
in the course of the afternoon and evening these hints were enlarged on : various soft conversations were reported , and sentimental scenes represented ; and , in short , a volume of a novel of fashionable life was that day improvised by her for my benefit .
the communications were renewed from day to day : they always ran on the same theme--herself , her loves , and woes . it was strange she never once adverted either to her mother 's illness , or her brother 's death , or the present gloomy state of the family prospects . her mind seemed wholly taken up with reminiscences of past gaiety , and aspirations after dissipations to come .
she passed about five minutes each day in her mother 's sick-room , and no more .
eliza still spoke little : she had evidently no time to talk . i never saw a busier person than she seemed to be ; yet it was difficult to say what she did : or rather , to discover any result of her diligence .
she had an alarm to call her up early . i know not how she occupied herself before breakfast , but after that meal she divided her time into regular portions , and each hour had its allotted task .
three times a day she studied a little book , which i found , on inspection , was a common prayer book .
i asked her once what was the great attraction of that volume , and she said , " the rubric . "
three hours she gave to stitching , with gold thread , the border of a square crimson cloth , almost large enough for a carpet . in answer to my inquiries after the use of this article , she informed me it was a covering for the altar of a new church lately erected near gateshead .
two hours she devoted to her diary ; two to working by herself in the kitchen-garden ; and one to the regulation of her accounts .
she seemed to want no company ; no conversation . i believe she was happy in her way : this routine sufficed for her ; and nothing annoyed her so much as the occurrence of any incident which forced her to vary its clockwork regularity .
she told me one evening , when more disposed to be communicative than usual , that john 's conduct , and the threatened ruin of the family , had been a source of profound affliction to her : but she had now , she said , settled her mind , and formed her resolution . her own fortune she had taken care to secure ; and when her mother died--and it was wholly improbable , she tranquilly remarked , that she should either recover or linger long--she would execute a long-cherished project : seek a retirement where punctual habits would be permanently secured from disturbance , and place safe barriers between herself and a frivolous world .
i asked if georgiana would accompany her .
" of course not .
georgiana and she had nothing in common : they never had had . she would not be burdened with her society for any consideration . georgiana should take her own course ; and she , eliza , would take hers . "
georgiana , when not unburdening her heart to me , spent most of her time in lying on the sofa , fretting about the dulness of the house , and wishing over and over again that her aunt gibson would send her an invitation up to town .
" it would be so much better , " she said , " if she could only get out of the way for a month or two , till all was over . "
i did not ask what she meant by " all being over , " but i suppose she referred to the expected decease of her mother and the gloomy sequel of funeral rites .
eliza generally took no more notice of her sister 's indolence and complaints than if no such murmuring , lounging object had been before her .
one day , however , as she put away her account-book and unfolded her embroidery , she suddenly took her up thus--
" georgiana , a more vain and absurd animal than you was certainly never allowed to cumber the earth . you had no right to be born , for you make no use of life .
instead of living for , in , and with yourself , as a reasonable being ought , you seek only to fasten your feebleness on some other person 's strength : if no one can be found willing to burden her or himself with such a fat , weak , puffy , useless thing , you cry out that you are ill-treated , neglected , miserable . then , too , existence for you must be a scene of continual change and excitement , or else the world is a dungeon : you must be admired , you must be courted , you must be flattered--you must have music , dancing , and society--or you languish , you die away .
have you no sense to devise a system which will make you independent of all efforts , and all wills , but your own ?
take one day ; share it into sections ; to each section apportion its task : leave no stray unemployed quarters of an hour , ten minutes , five minutes--include all ; do each piece of business in its turn with method , with rigid regularity . the day will close almost before you are aware it has begun ; and you are indebted to no one for helping you to get rid of one vacant moment : you have had to seek no one 's company , conversation , sympathy , forbearance ; you have lived , in short , as an independent being ought to do .
take this advice : the first and last i shall offer you ; then you will not want me or any one else , happen what may .
neglect it--go on as heretofore , craving , whining , and idling--and suffer the results of your idiocy , however bad and insuperable they may be .
i tell you this plainly ; and listen : for though i shall no more repeat what i am now about to say , i shall steadily act on it .
after my mother 's death , i wash my hands of you : from the day her coffin is carried to the vault in gateshead church , you and i will be as separate as if we had never known each other .
you need not think that because we chanced to be born of the same parents , i shall suffer you to fasten me down by even the feeblest claim : i can tell you this--if the whole human race , ourselves excepted , were swept away , and we two stood alone on the earth , i would leave you in the old world , and betake myself to the new . "
she closed her lips .
" you might have spared yourself the trouble of delivering that tirade , " answered georgiana .
" everybody knows you are the most selfish , heartless creature in existence : and _ i _ know your spiteful hatred towards me : i have had a specimen of it before in the trick you played me about lord edwin vere : you could not bear me to be raised above you , to have a title , to be received into circles where you dare not show your face , and so you acted the spy and informer , and ruined my prospects for ever . "
georgiana took out her handkerchief and blew her nose for an hour afterwards ; eliza sat cold , impassable , and assiduously industrious .
true , generous feeling is made small account of by some , but here were two natures rendered , the one intolerably acrid , the other despicably savourless for the want of it .
feeling without judgment is a washy draught indeed ; but judgment untempered by feeling is too bitter and husky a morsel for human deglutition .
it was a wet and windy afternoon : georgiana had fallen asleep on the sofa over the perusal of a novel ; eliza was gone to attend a saint 's-day service at the new church--for in matters of religion she was a rigid formalist : no weather ever prevented the punctual discharge of what she considered her devotional duties ; fair or foul , she went to church thrice every sunday , and as often on week-days as there were prayers .
i bethought myself to go upstairs and see how the dying woman sped , who lay there almost unheeded : the very servants paid her but a remittent attention : the hired nurse , being little looked after , would slip out of the room whenever she could . bessie was faithful ; but she had her own family to mind , and could only come occasionally to the hall .
i found the sick-room unwatched , as i had expected : no nurse was there ; the patient lay still , and seemingly lethargic ; her livid face sunk in the pillows : the fire was dying in the grate . i renewed the fuel , re-arranged the bedclothes , gazed awhile on her who could not now gaze on me , and then i moved away to the window .
the rain beat strongly against the panes , the wind blew tempestuously : " one lies there , " i thought , " who will soon be beyond the war of earthly elements . whither will that spirit--now struggling to quit its material tenement--flit when at length released ? "
in pondering the great mystery , i thought of helen burns , recalled her dying words--her faith--her doctrine of the equality of disembodied souls . i was still listening in thought to her well-remembered tones--still picturing her pale and spiritual aspect , her wasted face and sublime gaze , as she lay on her placid deathbed , and whispered her longing to be restored to her divine father 's bosom--when a feeble voice murmured from the couch behind : " who is that ? "
i knew mrs. reed had not spoken for days : was she reviving ?
i went up to her .
" it is i , aunt reed . "
" who--i ? " was her answer .
" who are you ? " looking at me with surprise and a sort of alarm , but still not wildly .
" you are quite a stranger to me--where is bessie ? "
" she is at the lodge , aunt . "
" aunt , " she repeated . " who calls me aunt ?
you are not one of the gibsons ; and yet i know you--that face , and the eyes and forehead , are quiet familiar to me : you are like--why , you are like jane eyre ! "
i said nothing : i was afraid of occasioning some shock by declaring my identity .
" yet , " said she , " i am afraid it is a mistake : my thoughts deceive me . i wished to see jane eyre , and i fancy a likeness where none exists : besides , in eight years she must be so changed . "
i now gently assured her that i was the person she supposed and desired me to be : and seeing that i was understood , and that her senses were quite collected , i explained how bessie had sent her husband to fetch me from thornfield .
" i am very ill , i know , " she said ere long . " i was trying to turn myself a few minutes since , and find i cannot move a limb .
it is as well i should ease my mind before i die : what we think little of in health , burdens us at such an hour as the present is to me .
is the nurse here ? or is there no one in the room but you ? "
i assured her we were alone .
" well , i have twice done you a wrong which i regret now . one was in breaking the promise which i gave my husband to bring you up as my own child ; the other-- " she stopped .
" after all , it is of no great importance , perhaps , " she murmured to herself : " and then i may get better ; and to humble myself so to her is painful . "
she made an effort to alter her position , but failed : her face changed ; she seemed to experience some inward sensation--the precursor , perhaps , of the last pang .
" well , i must get it over .
eternity is before me : i had better tell her.--go to my dressing-case , open it , and take out a letter you will see there . "
i obeyed her directions .
" read the letter , " she said .
it was short , and thus conceived : --
" madam , --will you have the goodness to send me the address of my niece , jane eyre , and to tell me how she is ?
it is my intention to write shortly and desire her to come to me at madeira .
providence has blessed my endeavours to secure a competency ; and as i am unmarried and childless , i wish to adopt her during my life , and bequeath her at my death whatever i may have to leave.--i am , madam , & c . , & c . ,
" john eyre , madeira . "
it was dated three years back .
" why did i never hear of this ? " i asked .
i could not forget your conduct to me , jane--the fury with which you once turned on me ; the tone in which you declared you abhorred me the worst of anybody in the world ; the unchildlike look and voice with which you affirmed that the very thought of me made you sick , and asserted that i had treated you with miserable cruelty . i could not forget my own sensations when you thus started up and poured out the venom of your mind : i felt fear as if an animal that i had struck or pushed had looked up at me with human eyes and cursed me in a man 's voice.--bring me some water !
oh , make haste ! "
" dear mrs. reed , " said i , as i offered her the draught she required , " think no more of all this , let it pass away from your mind . forgive me for my passionate language : i was a child then ; eight , nine years have passed since that day . "
she heeded nothing of what i said ; but when she had tasted the water and drawn breath , she went on thus--
" i tell you i could not forget it ; and i took my revenge : for you to be adopted by your uncle , and placed in a state of ease and comfort , was what i could not endure .
i wrote to him ; i said i was sorry for his disappointment , but jane eyre was dead : she had died of typhus fever at lowood .
now act as you please : write and contradict my assertion--expose my falsehood as soon as you like .
you were born , i think , to be my torment : my last hour is racked by the recollection of a deed which , but for you , i should never have been tempted to commit . "
" if you could but be persuaded to think no more of it , aunt , and to regard me with kindness and forgiveness "
" you have a very bad disposition , " said she , " and one to this day i feel it impossible to understand : how for nine years you could be patient and quiescent under any treatment , and in the tenth break out all fire and violence , i can never comprehend . "
" my disposition is not so bad as you think : i am passionate , but not vindictive . many a time , as a little child , i should have been glad to love you if you would have let me ; and i long earnestly to be reconciled to you now : kiss me , aunt . "
i approached my cheek to her lips : she would not touch it . she said i oppressed her by leaning over the bed , and again demanded water . as i laid her down--for i raised her and supported her on my arm while she drank--i covered her ice-cold and clammy hand with mine : the feeble fingers shrank from my touch--the glazing eyes shunned my gaze .
" love me , then , or hate me , as you will , " i said at last , " you have my full and free forgiveness : ask now for god 's , and be at peace . "
poor , suffering woman ! it was too late for her to make now the effort to change her habitual frame of mind : living , she had ever hated me--dying , she must hate me still .
the nurse now entered , and bessie followed . i yet lingered half-an-hour longer , hoping to see some sign of amity : but she gave none . she was fast relapsing into stupor ; nor did her mind again rally : at twelve o 'clock that night she died . i was not present to close her eyes , nor were either of her daughters .
they came to tell us the next morning that all was over . she was by that time laid out .
eliza and i went to look at her : georgiana , who had burst out into loud weeping , said she dared not go .
there was stretched sarah reed 's once robust and active frame , rigid and still : her eye of flint was covered with its cold lid ; her brow and strong traits wore yet the impress of her inexorable soul .
a strange and solemn object was that corpse to me .
i gazed on it with gloom and pain : nothing soft , nothing sweet , nothing pitying , or hopeful , or subduing did it inspire ; only a grating anguish for _ her _ woes--not _ my _ loss--and a sombre tearless dismay at the fearfulness of death in such a form .
eliza surveyed her parent calmly . after a silence of some minutes she observed--
" with her constitution she should have lived to a good old age : her life was shortened by trouble . "
and then a spasm constricted her mouth for an instant : as it passed away she turned and left the room , and so did i. neither of us had dropt a tear .
chapter xxii
mr. rochester had given me but one week 's leave of absence : yet a month elapsed before i quitted gateshead .
i wished to leave immediately after the funeral , but georgiana entreated me to stay till she could get off to london , whither she was now at last invited by her uncle , mr. gibson , who had come down to direct his sister 's interment and settle the family affairs .
georgiana said she dreaded being left alone with eliza ; from her she got neither sympathy in her dejection , support in her fears , nor aid in her preparations ; so i bore with her feeble-minded wailings and selfish lamentations as well as i could , and did my best in sewing for her and packing her dresses .
it is true , that while i worked , she would idle ; and i thought to myself , " if you and i were destined to live always together , cousin , we would commence matters on a different footing .
i should not settle tamely down into being the forbearing party ; i should assign you your share of labour , and compel you to accomplish it , or else it should be left undone : i should insist , also , on your keeping some of those drawling , half-insincere complaints hushed in your own breast . it is only because our connection happens to be very transitory , and comes at a peculiarly mournful season , that i consent thus to render it so patient and compliant on my part . " at last i saw georgiana off ; but now it was eliza 's turn to request me to stay another week .
her plans required all her time and attention , she said ; she was about to depart for some unknown bourne ; and all day long she stayed in her own room , her door bolted within , filling trunks , emptying drawers , burning papers , and holding no communication with any one . she wished me to look after the house , to see callers , and answer notes of condolence .
one morning she told me i was at liberty .
" and , " she added , " i am obliged to you for your valuable services and discreet conduct ! there is some difference between living with such an one as you and with georgiana : you perform your own part in life and burden no one .
to-morrow , " she continued , " i set out for the continent . i shall take up my abode in a religious house near lisle--a nunnery you would call it ; there i shall be quiet and unmolested .
i shall devote myself for a time to the examination of the roman catholic dogmas , and to a careful study of the workings of their system : if i find it to be , as i half suspect it is , the one best calculated to ensure the doing of all things decently and in order , i shall embrace the tenets of rome and probably take the veil . "
i neither expressed surprise at this resolution nor attempted to dissuade her from it .
" the vocation will fit you to a hair , " i thought : " much good may it do you ! "
when we parted , she said : " good-bye , cousin jane eyre ; i wish you well : you have some sense . "
i then returned : " you are not without sense , cousin eliza ; but what you have , i suppose , in another year will be walled up alive in a french convent .
however , it is not my business , and so it suits you , i don 't much care . "
" you are in the right , " said she ; and with these words we each went our separate way .
as i shall not have occasion to refer either to her or her sister again , i may as well mention here , that georgiana made an advantageous match with a wealthy worn-out man of fashion , and that eliza actually took the veil , and is at this day superior of the convent where she passed the period of her novitiate , and which she endowed with her fortune .
how people feel when they are returning home from an absence , long or short , i did not know : i had never experienced the sensation .
i had known what it was to come back to gateshead when a child after a long walk , to be scolded for looking cold or gloomy ; and later , what it was to come back from church to lowood , to long for a plenteous meal and a good fire , and to be unable to get either . neither of these returnings was very pleasant or desirable : no magnet drew me to a given point , increasing in its strength of attraction the nearer i came . the return to thornfield was yet to be tried .
my journey seemed tedious--very tedious : fifty miles one day , a night spent at an inn ; fifty miles the next day .
during the first twelve hours i thought of mrs. reed in her last moments ; i saw her disfigured and discoloured face , and heard her strangely altered voice . i mused on the funeral day , the coffin , the hearse , the black train of tenants and servants--few was the number of relatives--the gaping vault , the silent church , the solemn service .
then i thought of eliza and georgiana ; i beheld one the cynosure of a ball-room , the other the inmate of a convent cell ; and i dwelt on and analysed their separate peculiarities of person and character .
the evening arrival at the great town of--scattered these thoughts ; night gave them quite another turn : laid down on my traveller 's bed , i left reminiscence for anticipation .
i was going back to thornfield : but how long was i to stay there ?
not long ; of that i was sure .
i had heard from mrs. fairfax in the interim of my absence : the party at the hall was dispersed ; mr. rochester had left for london three weeks ago , but he was then expected to return in a fortnight .
mrs. fairfax surmised that he was gone to make arrangements for his wedding , as he had talked of purchasing a new carriage : she said the idea of his marrying miss ingram still seemed strange to her ; but from what everybody said , and from what she had herself seen , she could no longer doubt that the event would shortly take place .
" you would be strangely incredulous if you did doubt it , " was my mental comment . " i don 't doubt it . "
the question followed , " where was i to go ? " i dreamt of miss ingram all the night : in a vivid morning dream i saw her closing the gates of thornfield against me and pointing me out another road ; and mr. rochester looked on with his arms folded--smiling sardonically , as it seemed , at both her and me .
i had not notified to mrs. fairfax the exact day of my return ; for i did not wish either car or carriage to meet me at millcote . i proposed to walk the distance quietly by myself ; and very quietly , after leaving my box in the ostler 's care , did i slip away from the george inn , about six o 'clock of a june evening , and take the old road to thornfield : a road which lay chiefly through fields , and was now little frequented .
it was not a bright or splendid summer evening , though fair and soft : the haymakers were at work all along the road ; and the sky , though far from cloudless , was such as promised well for the future : its blue--where blue was visible--was mild and settled , and its cloud strata high and thin . the west , too , was warm : no watery gleam chilled it--it seemed as if there was a fire lit , an altar burning behind its screen of marbled vapour , and out of apertures shone a golden redness .
i felt glad as the road shortened before me : so glad that i stopped once to ask myself what that joy meant : and to remind reason that it was not to my home i was going , or to a permanent resting-place , or to a place where fond friends looked out for me and waited my arrival .
" mrs. fairfax will smile you a calm welcome , to be sure , " said i ; " and little adele will clap her hands and jump to see you : but you know very well you are thinking of another than they , and that he is not thinking of you . "
but what is so headstrong as youth ? what so blind as inexperience ? these affirmed that it was pleasure enough to have the privilege of again looking on mr. rochester , whether he looked on me or not ; and they added-- " hasten ! hasten ! be with him while you may : but a few more days or weeks , at most , and you are parted from him for ever ! "
and then i strangled a new-born agony--a deformed thing which i could not persuade myself to own and rear--and ran on .
they are making hay , too , in thornfield meadows : or rather , the labourers are just quitting their work , and returning home with their rakes on their shoulders , now , at the hour i arrive . i have but a field or two to traverse , and then i shall cross the road and reach the gates . how full the hedges are of roses ! but i have no time to gather any ; i want to be at the house .
i passed a tall briar , shooting leafy and flowery branches across the path ; i see the narrow stile with stone steps ; and i see--mr .
rochester sitting there , a book and a pencil in his hand ; he is writing .
well , he is not a ghost ; yet every nerve i have is unstrung : for a moment i am beyond my own mastery .
what does it mean ?
i did not think i should tremble in this way when i saw him , or lose my voice or the power of motion in his presence .
i will go back as soon as i can stir : i need not make an absolute fool of myself .
i know another way to the house . it does not signify if i knew twenty ways ; for he has seen me .
" hillo ! " he cries ; and he puts up his book and his pencil . " there you are !
come on , if you please . "
i suppose i do come on ; though in what fashion i know not ; being scarcely cognisant of my movements , and solicitous only to appear calm ; and , above all , to control the working muscles of my face--which i feel rebel insolently against my will , and struggle to express what i had resolved to conceal .
but i have a veil--it is down : i may make shift yet to behave with decent composure .
" and this is jane eyre ? are you coming from millcote , and on foot ?
yes--just one of your tricks : not to send for a carriage , and come clattering over street and road like a common mortal , but to steal into the vicinage of your home along with twilight , just as if you were a dream or a shade .
what the deuce have you done with yourself this last month ? "
" i have been with my aunt , sir , who is dead . "
" a true janian reply ! good angels be my guard !
she comes from the other world--from the abode of people who are dead ; and tells me so when she meets me alone here in the gloaming !
if i dared , i 'd touch you , to see if you are substance or shadow , you elf ! --but i 'd as soon offer to take hold of a blue _ ignis fatuus _ light in a marsh .
truant ! truant ! " he added , when he had paused an instant . " absent from me a whole month , and forgetting me quite , i 'll be sworn ! "
i knew there would be pleasure in meeting my master again , even though broken by the fear that he was so soon to cease to be my master , and by the knowledge that i was nothing to him : but there was ever in mr. rochester ( so at least i thought ) such a wealth of the power of communicating happiness , that to taste but of the crumbs he scattered to stray and stranger birds like me , was to feast genially .
his last words were balm : they seemed to imply that it imported something to him whether i forgot him or not . and he had spoken of thornfield as my home--would that it were my home !
he did not leave the stile , and i hardly liked to ask to go by .
i inquired soon if he had not been to london .
" yes ; i suppose you found that out by second-sight . "
" mrs. fairfax told me in a letter . "
" and did she inform you what i went to do ? "
" oh , yes , sir ! everybody knew your errand . "
" you must see the carriage , jane , and tell me if you don 't think it will suit mrs. rochester exactly ; and whether she won 't look like queen boadicea , leaning back against those purple cushions .
i wish , jane , i were a trifle better adapted to match with her externally . tell me now , fairy as you are--can 't you give me a charm , or a philter , or something of that sort , to make me a handsome man ? "
" it would be past the power of magic , sir ; " and , in thought , i added , " a loving eye is all the charm needed : to such you are handsome enough ; or rather your sternness has a power beyond beauty . "
mr. rochester had sometimes read my unspoken thoughts with an acumen to me incomprehensible : in the present instance he took no notice of my abrupt vocal response ; but he smiled at me with a certain smile he had of his own , and which he used but on rare occasions . he seemed to think it too good for common purposes : it was the real sunshine of feeling--he shed it over me now .
" pass , janet , " said he , making room for me to cross the stile : " go up home , and stay your weary little wandering feet at a friend 's threshold . "
all i had now to do was to obey him in silence : no need for me to colloquise further .
i got over the stile without a word , and meant to leave him calmly . an impulse held me fast--a force turned me round . i said--or something in me said for me , and in spite of me--
" thank you , mr. rochester , for your great kindness . i am strangely glad to get back again to you : and wherever you are is my home--my only home . "
i walked on so fast that even he could hardly have overtaken me had he tried .
little adele was half wild with delight when she saw me . mrs. fairfax received me with her usual plain friendliness . leah smiled , and even sophie bid me " bon soir " with glee .
this was very pleasant ; there is no happiness like that of being loved by your fellow-creatures , and feeling that your presence is an addition to their comfort .
i that evening shut my eyes resolutely against the future : i stopped my cars against the voice that kept warning me of near separation and coming grief .
when tea was over and mrs. fairfax had taken her knitting , and i had assumed a low seat near her , and adele , kneeling on the carpet , had nestled close up to me , and a sense of mutual affection seemed to surround us with a ring of golden peace , i uttered a silent prayer that we might not be parted far or soon ; but when , as we thus sat , mr. rochester entered , unannounced , and looking at us , seemed to take pleasure in the spectacle of a group so amicable--when he said he supposed the old lady was all right now that she had got her adopted daughter back again , and added that he saw adele was " prete a croquer sa petite maman anglaise " --i half ventured to hope that he would , even after his marriage , keep us together somewhere under the shelter of his protection , and not quite exiled from the sunshine of his presence .
a fortnight of dubious calm succeeded my return to thornfield hall .
nothing was said of the master 's marriage , and i saw no preparation going on for such an event .
almost every day i asked mrs. fairfax if she had yet heard anything decided : her answer was always in the negative .
once she said she had actually put the question to mr. rochester as to when he was going to bring his bride home ; but he had answered her only by a joke and one of his queer looks , and she could not tell what to make of him .
one thing specially surprised me , and that was , there were no journeyings backward and forward , no visits to ingram park : to be sure it was twenty miles off , on the borders of another county ; but what was that distance to an ardent lover ?
to so practised and indefatigable a horseman as mr. rochester , it would be but a morning 's ride .
i began to cherish hopes i had no right to conceive : that the match was broken off ; that rumour had been mistaken ; that one or both parties had changed their minds .
i used to look at my master 's face to see if it were sad or fierce ; but i could not remember the time when it had been so uniformly clear of clouds or evil feelings .
if , in the moments i and my pupil spent with him , i lacked spirits and sank into inevitable dejection , he became even gay . never had he called me more frequently to his presence ; never been kinder to me when there--and , alas ! never had i loved him so well .
chapter xxiii
a splendid midsummer shone over england : skies so pure , suns so radiant as were then seen in long succession , seldom favour even singly , our wave- girt land . it was as if a band of italian days had come from the south , like a flock of glorious passenger birds , and lighted to rest them on the cliffs of albion .
the hay was all got in ; the fields round thornfield were green and shorn ; the roads white and baked ; the trees were in their dark prime ; hedge and wood , full-leaved and deeply tinted , contrasted well with the sunny hue of the cleared meadows between .
on midsummer-eve , adele , weary with gathering wild strawberries in hay lane half the day , had gone to bed with the sun . i watched her drop asleep , and when i left her , i sought the garden .
it was now the sweetest hour of the twenty-four : -- " day its fervid fires had wasted , " and dew fell cool on panting plain and scorched summit .
where the sun had gone down in simple state--pure of the pomp of clouds--spread a solemn purple , burning with the light of red jewel and furnace flame at one point , on one hill-peak , and extending high and wide , soft and still softer , over half heaven .
the east had its own charm or fine deep blue , and its own modest gem , a casino and solitary star : soon it would boast the moon ; but she was yet beneath the horizon .
i walked a while on the pavement ; but a subtle , well-known scent--that of a cigar--stole from some window ; i saw the library casement open a handbreadth ; i knew i might be watched thence ; so i went apart into the orchard .
no nook in the grounds more sheltered and more eden-like ; it was full of trees , it bloomed with flowers : a very high wall shut it out from the court , on one side ; on the other , a beech avenue screened it from the lawn . at the bottom was a sunk fence ; its sole separation from lonely fields : a winding walk , bordered with laurels and terminating in a giant horse-chestnut , circled at the base by a seat , led down to the fence .
here one could wander unseen . while such honey-dew fell , such silence reigned , such gloaming gathered , i felt as if i could haunt such shade for ever ; but in threading the flower and fruit parterres at the upper part of the enclosure , enticed there by the light the now rising moon cast on this more open quarter , my step is stayed--not by sound , not by sight , but once more by a warning fragrance .
sweet-briar and southernwood , jasmine , pink , and rose have long been yielding their evening sacrifice of incense : this new scent is neither of shrub nor flower ; it is--i know it well--it is mr. rochester 's cigar . i look round and i listen .
i see trees laden with ripening fruit . i hear a nightingale warbling in a wood half a mile off ; no moving form is visible , no coming step audible ; but that perfume increases : i must flee .
i make for the wicket leading to the shrubbery , and i see mr. rochester entering . i step aside into the ivy recess ; he will not stay long : he will soon return whence he came , and if i sit still he will never see me .
but no--eventide is as pleasant to him as to me , and this antique garden as attractive ; and he strolls on , now lifting the gooseberry-tree branches to look at the fruit , large as plums , with which they are laden ; now taking a ripe cherry from the wall ; now stooping towards a knot of flowers , either to inhale their fragrance or to admire the dew-beads on their petals .
a great moth goes humming by me ; it alights on a plant at mr. rochester 's foot : he sees it , and bends to examine it .
" now , he has his back towards me , " thought i , " and he is occupied too ; perhaps , if i walk softly , i can slip away unnoticed . "
i trode on an edging of turf that the crackle of the pebbly gravel might not betray me : he was standing among the beds at a yard or two distant from where i had to pass ; the moth apparently engaged him .
" i shall get by very well , " i meditated .
as i crossed his shadow , thrown long over the garden by the moon , not yet risen high , he said quietly , without turning--
" jane , come and look at this fellow . "
i had made no noise : he had not eyes behind--could his shadow feel ?
" look at his wings , " said he , " he reminds me rather of a west indian insect ; one does not often see so large and gay a night-rover in england ; there ! he is flown . "
the moth roamed away .
i was sheepishly retreating also ; but mr. rochester followed me , and when we reached the wicket , he said--
" turn back : on so lovely a night it is a shame to sit in the house ; and surely no one can wish to go to bed while sunset is thus at meeting with moonrise . "
it is one of my faults , that though my tongue is sometimes prompt enough at an answer , there are times when it sadly fails me in framing an excuse ; and always the lapse occurs at some crisis , when a facile word or plausible pretext is specially wanted to get me out of painful embarrassment .
i did not like to walk at this hour alone with mr. rochester in the shadowy orchard ; but i could not find a reason to allege for leaving him .
i followed with lagging step , and thoughts busily bent on discovering a means of extrication ; but he himself looked so composed and so grave also , i became ashamed of feeling any confusion : the evil--if evil existent or prospective there was--seemed to lie with me only ; his mind was unconscious and quiet .
" jane , " he recommenced , as we entered the laurel walk , and slowly strayed down in the direction of the sunk fence and the horse-chestnut , " thornfield is a pleasant place in summer , is it not ? "
" yes , sir . "
" you must have become in some degree attached to the house , --you , who have an eye for natural beauties , and a good deal of the organ of adhesiveness ? "
" i am attached to it , indeed . "
" and though i don 't comprehend how it is , i perceive you have acquired a degree of regard for that foolish little child adele , too ; and even for simple dame fairfax ? "
" yes , sir ; in different ways , i have an affection for both . "
" and would be sorry to part with them ? "
" yes . "
" pity ! " he said , and sighed and paused .
" it is always the way of events in this life , " he continued presently : " no sooner have you got settled in a pleasant resting-place , than a voice calls out to you to rise and move on , for the hour of repose is expired . "
" must i move on , sir ? " i asked . " must i leave thornfield ? "
" i believe you must , jane . i am sorry , janet , but i believe indeed you must . "
this was a blow : but i did not let it prostrate me .
" well , sir , i shall be ready when the order to march comes . "
" it is come now--i must give it to-night . "
" then you _ are _ going to be married , sir ? "
" ex-act-ly--pre-cise-ly : with your usual acuteness , you have hit the nail straight on the head . "
" soon , sir ? "
" very soon , my--that is , miss eyre : and you 'll remember , jane , the first time i , or rumour , plainly intimated to you that it was my intention to put my old bachelor 's neck into the sacred noose , to enter into the holy estate of matrimony--to take miss ingram to my bosom , in short ( she 's an extensive armful : but that 's not to the point--one can 't have too much of such a very excellent thing as my beautiful blanche ) : well , as i was saying--listen to me , jane !
you 're not turning your head to look after more moths , are you ? that was only a lady-clock , child , ' flying away home . '
i wish to remind you that it was you who first said to me , with that discretion i respect in you--with that foresight , prudence , and humility which befit your responsible and dependent position--that in case i married miss ingram , both you and little adele had better trot forthwith .
i pass over the sort of slur conveyed in this suggestion on the character of my beloved ; indeed , when you are far away , janet , i 'll try to forget it : i shall notice only its wisdom ; which is such that i have made it my law of action .
adele must go to school ; and you , miss eyre , must get a new situation . "
" yes , sir , i will advertise immediately : and meantime , i suppose-- " i was going to say , " i suppose i may stay here , till i find another shelter to betake myself to : " but i stopped , feeling it would not do to risk a long sentence , for my voice was not quite under command .
" in about a month i hope to be a bridegroom , " continued mr. rochester ; " and in the interim , i shall myself look out for employment and an asylum for you . "
" thank you , sir ; i am sorry to give-- " " oh , no need to apologise !
i consider that when a dependent does her duty as well as you have done yours , she has a sort of claim upon her employer for any little assistance he can conveniently render her ; indeed i have already , through my future mother-in-law , heard of a place that i think will suit : it is to undertake the education of the five daughters of mrs. dionysius o 'gall of bitternutt lodge , connaught , ireland . you 'll like ireland , i think : they 're such warm-hearted people there , they say . "
" it is a long way off , sir . "
" no matter--a girl of your sense will not object to the voyage or the distance . "
" not the voyage , but the distance : and then the sea is a barrier-- "
" from what , jane ? "
" from england and from thornfield : and-- "
" well ? "
" from _ you _ , sir . "
i said this almost involuntarily , and , with as little sanction of free will , my tears gushed out . i did not cry so as to be heard , however ; i avoided sobbing .
the thought of mrs. o 'gall and bitternutt lodge struck cold to my heart ; and colder the thought of all the brine and foam , destined , as it seemed , to rush between me and the master at whose side i now walked , and coldest the remembrance of the wider ocean--wealth , caste , custom intervened between me and what i naturally and inevitably loved .
" it is a long way , " i again said .
" it is , to be sure ; and when you get to bitternutt lodge , connaught , ireland , i shall never see you again , jane : that 's morally certain . i never go over to ireland , not having myself much of a fancy for the country .
we have been good friends , jane ; have we not ? "
" yes , sir . "
" and when friends are on the eve of separation , they like to spend the little time that remains to them close to each other . come ! we 'll talk over the voyage and the parting quietly half-an-hour or so , while the stars enter into their shining life up in heaven yonder : here is the chestnut tree : here is the bench at its old roots .
come , we will sit there in peace to-night , though we should never more be destined to sit there together . "
he seated me and himself .
" it is a long way to ireland , janet , and i am sorry to send my little friend on such weary travels : but if i can 't do better , how is it to be helped ?
are you anything akin to me , do you think , jane ? "
i could risk no sort of answer by this time : my heart was still .
" because , " he said , " i sometimes have a queer feeling with regard to you--especially when you are near me , as now : it is as if i had a string somewhere under my left ribs , tightly and inextricably knotted to a similar string situated in the corresponding quarter of your little frame . and if that boisterous channel , and two hundred miles or so of land come broad between us , i am afraid that cord of communion will be snapt ; and then i 've a nervous notion i should take to bleeding inwardly .
as for you , --you 'd forget me . "
" that i _ never _ should , sir : you know-- " impossible to proceed .
" jane , do you hear that nightingale singing in the wood ? listen ! "
in listening , i sobbed convulsively ; for i could repress what i endured no longer ; i was obliged to yield , and i was shaken from head to foot with acute distress .
when i did speak , it was only to express an impetuous wish that i had never been born , or never come to thornfield .
" because you are sorry to leave it ? "
the vehemence of emotion , stirred by grief and love within me , was claiming mastery , and struggling for full sway , and asserting a right to predominate , to overcome , to live , rise , and reign at last : yes , --and to speak .
" i grieve to leave thornfield : i love thornfield : --i love it , because i have lived in it a full and delightful life , --momentarily at least . i have not been trampled on . i have not been petrified . i have not been buried with inferior minds , and excluded from every glimpse of communion with what is bright and energetic and high . i have talked , face to face , with what i reverence , with what i delight in , --with an original , a vigorous , an expanded mind . i have known you , mr. rochester ; and it strikes me with terror and anguish to feel i absolutely must be torn from you for ever .
" where do you see the necessity ? " he asked suddenly .
" where ? you , sir , have placed it before me . "
" in what shape ? "
" in the shape of miss ingram ; a noble and beautiful woman , --your bride . "
" my bride !
what bride ?
i have no bride ! "
" but you will have . "
" yes ; --i will ! --i will ! " he set his teeth .
" then i must go : --you have said it yourself . "
" no : you must stay ! i swear it--and the oath shall be kept . "
" i tell you i must go ! " i retorted , roused to something like passion .
" do you think i can stay to become nothing to you ? do you think i am an automaton ? --a machine without feelings ? and can bear to have my morsel of bread snatched from my lips , and my drop of living water dashed from my cup ? do you think , because i am poor , obscure , plain , and little , i am soulless and heartless ? you think wrong ! --i have as much soul as you , --and full as much heart !
and if god had gifted me with some beauty and much wealth , i should have made it as hard for you to leave me , as it is now for me to leave you .
i am not talking to you now through the medium of custom , conventionalities , nor even of mortal flesh ; --it is my spirit that addresses your spirit ; just as if both had passed through the grave , and we stood at god 's feet , equal , --as we are ! "
" as we are ! " repeated mr. rochester-- " so , " he added , enclosing me in his arms . gathering me to his breast , pressing his lips on my lips : " so , jane ! "
" yes , so , sir , " i rejoined : " and yet not so ; for you are a married man--or as good as a married man , and wed to one inferior to you--to one with whom you have no sympathy--whom i do not believe you truly love ; for i have seen and heard you sneer at her .
i would scorn such a union : therefore i am better than you--let me go ! "
" where , jane ?
to ireland ? "
" yes--to ireland . i have spoken my mind , and can go anywhere now . "
" jane , be still ; don 't struggle so , like a wild frantic bird that is rending its own plumage in its desperation . "
" i am no bird ; and no net ensnares me ; i am a free human being with an independent will , which i now exert to leave you . "
another effort set me at liberty , and i stood erect before him .
" and your will shall decide your destiny , " he said : " i offer you my hand , my heart , and a share of all my possessions . "
" you play a farce , which i merely laugh at . "
" i ask you to pass through life at my side--to be my second self , and best earthly companion . "
" for that fate you have already made your choice , and must abide by it . "
" jane , be still a few moments : you are over-excited : i will be still too . "
a waft of wind came sweeping down the laurel-walk , and trembled through the boughs of the chestnut : it wandered away--away--to an indefinite distance--it died .
the nightingale 's song was then the only voice of the hour : in listening to it , i again wept .
mr. rochester sat quiet , looking at me gently and seriously . some time passed before he spoke ; he at last said--
" come to my side , jane , and let us explain and understand one another . "
" i will never again come to your side : i am torn away now , and cannot return . "
" but , jane , i summon you as my wife : it is you only i intend to marry . "
i was silent : i thought he mocked me .
" come , jane--come hither . "
" your bride stands between us . "
he rose , and with a stride reached me .
" my bride is here , " he said , again drawing me to him , " because my equal is here , and my likeness .
jane , will you marry me ? "
still i did not answer , and still i writhed myself from his grasp : for i was still incredulous .
" do you doubt me , jane ? "
" entirely . "
" you have no faith in me ? "
" not a whit . "
" am i a liar in your eyes ? " he asked passionately . " little sceptic , you _ shall _ be convinced .
what love have i for miss ingram ? none : and that you know .
what love has she for me ?
none : as i have taken pains to prove : i caused a rumour to reach her that my fortune was not a third of what was supposed , and after that i presented myself to see the result ; it was coldness both from her and her mother . i would not--i could not--marry miss ingram .
you--you strange , you almost unearthly thing ! --i love as my own flesh . you--poor and obscure , and small and plain as you are--i entreat to accept me as a husband . "
" what , me ! " i ejaculated , beginning in his earnestness--and especially in his incivility--to credit his sincerity : " me who have not a friend in the world but you--if you are my friend : not a shilling but what you have given me ? "
" you , jane , i must have you for my own--entirely my own . will you be mine ?
say yes , quickly . " " mr. rochester , let me look at your face : turn to the moonlight . "
" why ? "
" because i want to read your countenance--turn ! "
" there ! you will find it scarcely more legible than a crumpled , scratched page . read on : only make haste , for i suffer . "
his face was very much agitated and very much flushed , and there were strong workings in the features , and strange gleams in the eyes .
" oh , jane , you torture me ! " he exclaimed . " with that searching and yet faithful and generous look , you torture me ! "
" how can i do that ? if you are true , and your offer real , my only feelings to you must be gratitude and devotion--they cannot torture . "
" gratitude ! " he ejaculated ; and added wildly-- " jane accept me quickly . say , edward--give me my name--edward--i will marry you . " " are you in earnest ? do you truly love me ?
do you sincerely wish me to be your wife ? " " i do ; and if an oath is necessary to satisfy you , i swear it . "
" then , sir , i will marry you . "
" edward--my little wife ! "
" dear edward ! "
" come to me--come to me entirely now , " said he ; and added , in his deepest tone , speaking in my ear as his cheek was laid on mine , " make my happiness--i will make yours . "
" god pardon me ! " he subjoined ere long ; " and man meddle not with me : i have her , and will hold her . "
" there is no one to meddle , sir . i have no kindred to interfere . "
" no--that is the best of it , " he said .
and if i had loved him less i should have thought his accent and look of exultation savage ; but , sitting by him , roused from the nightmare of parting--called to the paradise of union--i thought only of the bliss given me to drink in so abundant a flow .
again and again he said , " are you happy , jane ? " and again and again i answered , " yes . "
after which he murmured , " it will atone--it will atone .
have i not found her friendless , and cold , and comfortless ? will i not guard , and cherish , and solace her ?
is there not love in my heart , and constancy in my resolves ? it will expiate at god 's tribunal .
i know my maker sanctions what i do . for the world 's judgment--i wash my hands thereof .
for man 's opinion--i defy it . "
but what had befallen the night ? the moon was not yet set , and we were all in shadow : i could scarcely see my master 's face , near as i was .
and what ailed the chestnut tree ? it writhed and groaned ; while wind roared in the laurel walk , and came sweeping over us . " we must go in , " said mr. rochester : " the weather changes .
i could have sat with thee till morning , jane . " " and so , " thought i , " could i with you . " i should have said so , perhaps , but a livid , vivid spark leapt out of a cloud at which i was looking , and there was a crack , a crash , and a close rattling peal ; and i thought only of hiding my dazzled eyes against mr. rochester 's shoulder .
the rain rushed down . he hurried me up the walk , through the grounds , and into the house ; but we were quite wet before we could pass the threshold .
he was taking off my shawl in the hall , and shaking the water out of my loosened hair , when mrs. fairfax emerged from her room .
i did not observe her at first , nor did mr. rochester . the lamp was lit . the clock was on the stroke of twelve .
" hasten to take off your wet things , " said he ; " and before you go , good- night--good-night , my darling ! "
he kissed me repeatedly .
when i looked up , on leaving his arms , there stood the widow , pale , grave , and amazed .
i only smiled at her , and ran upstairs .
" explanation will do for another time , " thought i. still , when i reached my chamber , i felt a pang at the idea she should even temporarily misconstrue what she had seen . but joy soon effaced every other feeling ; and loud as the wind blew , near and deep as the thunder crashed , fierce and frequent as the lightning gleamed , cataract-like as the rain fell during a storm of two hours ' duration , i experienced no fear and little awe .
mr. rochester came thrice to my door in the course of it , to ask if i was safe and tranquil : and that was comfort , that was strength for anything .
before i left my bed in the morning , little adele came running in to tell me that the great horse-chestnut at the bottom of the orchard had been struck by lightning in the night , and half of it split away .
chapter xxiv
as i rose and dressed , i thought over what had happened , and wondered if it were a dream . i could not be certain of the reality till i had seen mr. rochester again , and heard him renew his words of love and promise .
while arranging my hair , i looked at my face in the glass , and felt it was no longer plain : there was hope in its aspect and life in its colour ; and my eyes seemed as if they had beheld the fount of fruition , and borrowed beams from the lustrous ripple .
i had often been unwilling to look at my master , because i feared he could not be pleased at my look ; but i was sure i might lift my face to his now , and not cool his affection by its expression .
i took a plain but clean and light summer dress from my drawer and put it on : it seemed no attire had ever so well become me , because none had i ever worn in so blissful a mood .
i was not surprised , when i ran down into the hall , to see that a brilliant june morning had succeeded to the tempest of the night ; and to feel , through the open glass door , the breathing of a fresh and fragrant breeze . nature must be gladsome when i was so happy .
a beggar-woman and her little boy--pale , ragged objects both--were coming up the walk , and i ran down and gave them all the money i happened to have in my purse--some three or four shillings : good or bad , they must partake of my jubilee .
the rooks cawed , and blither birds sang ; but nothing was so merry or so musical as my own rejoicing heart .
mrs. fairfax surprised me by looking out of the window with a sad countenance , and saying gravely-- " miss eyre , will you come to breakfast ? "
during the meal she was quiet and cool : but i could not undeceive her then .
i must wait for my master to give explanations ; and so must she .
i ate what i could , and then i hastened upstairs . i met adele leaving the schoolroom .
" where are you going ?
it is time for lessons . " " mr. rochester has sent me away to the nursery . "
" where is he ? "
" in there , " pointing to the apartment she had left ; and i went in , and there he stood .
" come and bid me good-morning , " said he .
i gladly advanced ; and it was not merely a cold word now , or even a shake of the hand that i received , but an embrace and a kiss . it seemed natural : it seemed genial to be so well loved , so caressed by him .
" jane , you look blooming , and smiling , and pretty , " said he : " truly pretty this morning .
is this my pale , little elf ? is this my mustard- seed ?
this little sunny-faced girl with the dimpled cheek and rosy lips ; the satin-smooth hazel hair , and the radiant hazel eyes ? "
( i had green eyes , reader ; but you must excuse the mistake : for him they were new-dyed , i suppose . )
" it is jane eyre , sir . "
" soon to be jane rochester , " he added : " in four weeks , janet ; not a day more . do you hear that ? "
i did , and i could not quite comprehend it : it made me giddy . the feeling , the announcement sent through me , was something stronger than was consistent with joy--something that smote and stunned . it was , i think almost fear .
" you blushed , and now you are white , jane : what is that for ? "
" because you gave me a new name--jane rochester ; and it seems so strange . "
" yes , mrs. rochester , " said he ; " young mrs. rochester--fairfax rochester 's girl-bride . "
" it can never be , sir ; it does not sound likely . human beings never enjoy complete happiness in this world . i was not born for a different destiny to the rest of my species : to imagine such a lot befalling me is a fairy tale--a day-dream . "
" which i can and will realise . i shall begin to-day .
this morning i wrote to my banker in london to send me certain jewels he has in his keeping , --heirlooms for the ladies of thornfield . in a day or two i hope to pour them into your lap : for every privilege , every attention shall be yours that i would accord a peer 's daughter , if about to marry her . "
" oh , sir ! --never rain jewels ! i don 't like to hear them spoken of .
jewels for jane eyre sounds unnatural and strange : i would rather not have them . "
" i will myself put the diamond chain round your neck , and the circlet on your forehead , --which it will become : for nature , at least , has stamped her patent of nobility on this brow , jane ; and i will clasp the bracelets on these fine wrists , and load these fairy-like fingers with rings . "
" no , no , sir ! think of other subjects , and speak of other things , and in another strain . don 't address me as if i were a beauty ; i am your plain , quakerish governess . "
" you are a beauty in my eyes , and a beauty just after the desire of my heart , --delicate and aerial . "
" puny and insignificant , you mean .
you are dreaming , sir , --or you are sneering . for god 's sake don 't be ironical ! "
" i will make the world acknowledge you a beauty , too , " he went on , while i really became uneasy at the strain he had adopted , because i felt he was either deluding himself or trying to delude me .
" i will attire my jane in satin and lace , and she shall have roses in her hair ; and i will cover the head i love best with a priceless veil . "
" and then you won 't know me , sir ; and i shall not be your jane eyre any longer , but an ape in a harlequin 's jacket--a jay in borrowed plumes .
i would as soon see you , mr. rochester , tricked out in stage-trappings , as myself clad in a court-lady 's robe ; and i don 't call you handsome , sir , though i love you most dearly : far too dearly to flatter you . don 't flatter me . "
he pursued his theme , however , without noticing my deprecation .
" this very day i shall take you in the carriage to millcote , and you must choose some dresses for yourself .
i told you we shall be married in four weeks . the wedding is to take place quietly , in the church down below yonder ; and then i shall waft you away at once to town .
after a brief stay there , i shall bear my treasure to regions nearer the sun : to french vineyards and italian plains ; and she shall see whatever is famous in old story and in modern record : she shall taste , too , of the life of cities ; and she shall learn to value herself by just comparison with others . "
" shall i travel ? --and with you , sir ? "
" you shall sojourn at paris , rome , and naples : at florence , venice , and vienna : all the ground i have wandered over shall be re-trodden by you : wherever i stamped my hoof , your sylph 's foot shall step also .
ten years since , i flew through europe half mad ; with disgust , hate , and rage as my companions : now i shall revisit it healed and cleansed , with a very angel as my comforter . "
i laughed at him as he said this .
" i am not an angel , " i asserted ; " and i will not be one till i die : i will be myself .
mr. rochester , you must neither expect nor exact anything celestial of me--for you will not get it , any more than i shall get it of you : which i do not at all anticipate . "
" what do you anticipate of me ? "
" for a little while you will perhaps be as you are now , --a very little while ; and then you will turn cool ; and then you will be capricious ; and then you will be stern , and i shall have much ado to please you : but when you get well used to me , you will perhaps like me again , -- _ like _ me , i say , not _ love _ me .
i suppose your love will effervesce in six months , or less . i have observed in books written by men , that period assigned as the farthest to which a husband 's ardour extends . yet , after all , as a friend and companion , i hope never to become quite distasteful to my dear master . "
" distasteful ! and like you again ! i think i shall like you again , and yet again : and i will make you confess i do not only _ like _ , but _ love _ you--with truth , fervour , constancy . "
" yet are you not capricious , sir ? "
" to women who please me only by their faces , i am the very devil when i find out they have neither souls nor hearts--when they open to me a perspective of flatness , triviality , and perhaps imbecility , coarseness , and ill-temper : but to the clear eye and eloquent tongue , to the soul made of fire , and the character that bends but does not break--at once supple and stable , tractable and consistent--i am ever tender and true . "
" had you ever experience of such a character , sir ? did you ever love such an one ? "
" i love it now . "
" but before me : if i , indeed , in any respect come up to your difficult standard ? "
" i never met your likeness . jane , you please me , and you master me--you seem to submit , and i like the sense of pliancy you impart ; and while i am twining the soft , silken skein round my finger , it sends a thrill up my arm to my heart .
i am influenced--conquered ; and the influence is sweeter than i can express ; and the conquest i undergo has a witchery beyond any triumph i can win . why do you smile , jane ?
what does that inexplicable , that uncanny turn of countenance mean ? "
" i was thinking , sir ( you will excuse the idea ; it was involuntary ) , i was thinking of hercules and samson with their charmers-- "
" you were , you little elfish-- "
" hush , sir !
you don 't talk very wisely just now ; any more than those gentlemen acted very wisely . however , had they been married , they would no doubt by their severity as husbands have made up for their softness as suitors ; and so will you , i fear . i wonder how you will answer me a year hence , should i ask a favour it does not suit your convenience or pleasure to grant . "
" ask me something now , jane , --the least thing : i desire to be entreated-- "
" indeed i will , sir ; i have my petition all ready . "
" speak ! but if you look up and smile with that countenance , i shall swear concession before i know to what , and that will make a fool of me . "
" not at all , sir ; i ask only this : don 't send for the jewels , and don 't crown me with roses : you might as well put a border of gold lace round that plain pocket handkerchief you have there . "
" i might as well ' gild refined gold . ' i know it : your request is granted then--for the time . i will remand the order i despatched to my banker .
but you have not yet asked for anything ; you have prayed a gift to be withdrawn : try again . "
" well then , sir , have the goodness to gratify my curiosity , which is much piqued on one point . "
he looked disturbed .
" what ? what ? " he said hastily . " curiosity is a dangerous petition : it is well i have not taken a vow to accord every request-- "
" but there can be no danger in complying with this , sir . "
" utter it , jane : but i wish that instead of a mere inquiry into , perhaps , a secret , it was a wish for half my estate . " " now , king ahasuerus ! what do i want with half your estate ?
do you think i am a jew-usurer , seeking good investment in land ?
i would much rather have all your confidence . you will not exclude me from your confidence if you admit me to your heart ? "
" you are welcome to all my confidence that is worth having , jane ; but for god 's sake , don 't desire a useless burden ! don 't long for poison--don 't turn out a downright eve on my hands ! "
" why not , sir ? you have just been telling me how much you liked to be conquered , and how pleasant over-persuasion is to you .
don 't you think i had better take advantage of the confession , and begin and coax and entreat--even cry and be sulky if necessary--for the sake of a mere essay of my power ? "
" i dare you to any such experiment . encroach , presume , and the game is up . " " is it , sir ?
you soon give in . how stern you look now !
your eyebrows have become as thick as my finger , and your forehead resembles what , in some very astonishing poetry , i once saw styled , ' a blue-piled thunderloft . '
that will be your married look , sir , i suppose ? "
" if that will be _ your _ married look , i , as a christian , will soon give up the notion of consorting with a mere sprite or salamander .
but what had you to ask , thing , --out with it ? "
" there , you are less than civil now ; and i like rudeness a great deal better than flattery .
i had rather be a _ thing _ than an angel .
this is what i have to ask , --why did you take such pains to make me believe you wished to marry miss ingram ? "
" is that all ?
thank god it is no worse ! "
and now he unknit his black brows ; looked down , smiling at me , and stroked my hair , as if well pleased at seeing a danger averted .
" i think i may confess , " he continued , " even although i should make you a little indignant , jane--and i have seen what a fire-spirit you can be when you are indignant . you glowed in the cool moonlight last night , when you mutinied against fate , and claimed your rank as my equal . janet , by-the-bye , it was you who made me the offer . "
" of course i did . but to the point if you please , sir--miss ingram ? "
" well , i feigned courtship of miss ingram , because i wished to render you as madly in love with me as i was with you ; and i knew jealousy would be the best ally i could call in for the furtherance of that end . "
" excellent ! now you are small--not one whit bigger than the end of my little finger .
it was a burning shame and a scandalous disgrace to act in that way . did you think nothing of miss ingram 's feelings , sir ? "
" her feelings are concentrated in one--pride ; and that needs humbling .
were you jealous , jane ? "
" never mind , mr. rochester : it is in no way interesting to you to know that .
answer me truly once more . do you think miss ingram will not suffer from your dishonest coquetry ?
won 't she feel forsaken and deserted ? "
" impossible ! --when i told you how she , on the contrary , deserted me : the idea of my insolvency cooled , or rather extinguished , her flame in a moment . "
" you have a curious , designing mind , mr. rochester . i am afraid your principles on some points are eccentric . "
" my principles were never trained , jane : they may have grown a little awry for want of attention . "
" once again , seriously ; may i enjoy the great good that has been vouchsafed to me , without fearing that any one else is suffering the bitter pain i myself felt a while ago ? "
" that you may , my good little girl : there is not another being in the world has the same pure love for me as yourself--for i lay that pleasant unction to my soul , jane , a belief in your affection . "
i turned my lips to the hand that lay on my shoulder .
i loved him very much--more than i could trust myself to say--more than words had power to express .
" ask something more , " he said presently ; " it is my delight to be entreated , and to yield . "
i was again ready with my request .
" communicate your intentions to mrs. fairfax , sir : she saw me with you last night in the hall , and she was shocked . give her some explanation before i see her again . it pains me to be misjudged by so good a woman . "
" go to your room , and put on your bonnet , " he replied . " i mean you to accompany me to millcote this morning ; and while you prepare for the drive , i will enlighten the old lady 's understanding .
did she think , janet , you had given the world for love , and considered it well lost ? "
" i believe she thought i had forgotten my station , and yours , sir . "
" station ! station ! --your station is in my heart , and on the necks of those who would insult you , now or hereafter.--go. "
i was soon dressed ; and when i heard mr. rochester quit mrs. fairfax 's parlour , i hurried down to it .
the old lady , had been reading her morning portion of scripture--the lesson for the day ; her bible lay open before her , and her spectacles were upon it . her occupation , suspended by mr. rochester 's announcement , seemed now forgotten : her eyes , fixed on the blank wall opposite , expressed the surprise of a quiet mind stirred by unwonted tidings .
seeing me , she roused herself : she made a sort of effort to smile , and framed a few words of congratulation ; but the smile expired , and the sentence was abandoned unfinished . she put up her spectacles , shut the bible , and pushed her chair back from the table .
" i feel so astonished , " she began , " i hardly know what to say to you , miss eyre .
i have surely not been dreaming , have i ?
sometimes i half fall asleep when i am sitting alone and fancy things that have never happened . it has seemed to me more than once when i have been in a doze , that my dear husband , who died fifteen years since , has come in and sat down beside me ; and that i have even heard him call me by my name , alice , as he used to do .
now , can you tell me whether it is actually true that mr. rochester has asked you to marry him ?
don 't laugh at me . but i really thought he came in here five minutes ago , and said that in a month you would be his wife . "
" he has said the same thing to me , " i replied .
" he has !
do you believe him ?
have you accepted him ? "
" yes . "
she looked at me bewildered .
" i could never have thought it .
he is a proud man : all the rochesters were proud : and his father , at least , liked money . he , too , has always been called careful .
he means to marry you ? "
" he tells me so . "
she surveyed my whole person : in her eyes i read that they had there found no charm powerful enough to solve the enigma .
" it passes me ! " she continued ; " but no doubt , it is true since you say so .
how it will answer , i cannot tell : i really don 't know .
equality of position and fortune is often advisable in such cases ; and there are twenty years of difference in your ages . he might almost be your father . "
" no , indeed , mrs. fairfax ! " exclaimed i , nettled ; " he is nothing like my father ! no one , who saw us together , would suppose it for an instant . mr. rochester looks as young , and is as young , as some men at five-and- twenty . "
" is it really for love he is going to marry you ? " she asked .
i was so hurt by her coldness and scepticism , that the tears rose to my eyes .
" i am sorry to grieve you , " pursued the widow ; " but you are so young , and so little acquainted with men , i wished to put you on your guard .
it is an old saying that ' all is not gold that glitters ; ' and in this case i do fear there will be something found to be different to what either you or i expect . "
" why ? --am i a monster ? "
i said : " is it impossible that mr. rochester should have a sincere affection for me ? "
" no : you are very well ; and much improved of late ; and mr. rochester , i daresay , is fond of you . i have always noticed that you were a sort of pet of his . there are times when , for your sake , i have been a little uneasy at his marked preference , and have wished to put you on your guard : but i did not like to suggest even the possibility of wrong .
i knew such an idea would shock , perhaps offend you ; and you were so discreet , and so thoroughly modest and sensible , i hoped you might be trusted to protect yourself .
last night i cannot tell you what i suffered when i sought all over the house , and could find you nowhere , nor the master either ; and then , at twelve o 'clock , saw you come in with him . "
" well , never mind that now , " i interrupted impatiently ; " it is enough that all was right . "
" i hope all will be right in the end , " she said : " but believe me , you cannot be too careful .
try and keep mr. rochester at a distance : distrust yourself as well as him . gentlemen in his station are not accustomed to marry their governesses . "
i was growing truly irritated : happily , adele ran in .
" let me go , --let me go to millcote too ! " she cried . " mr. rochester won 't : though there is so much room in the new carriage . beg him to let me go mademoiselle . "
" that i will , adele ; " and i hastened away with her , glad to quit my gloomy monitress .
the carriage was ready : they were bringing it round to the front , and my master was pacing the pavement , pilot following him backwards and forwards .
" adele may accompany us , may she not , sir ? "
" i told her no . i 'll have no brats ! --i 'll have only you . "
" do let her go , mr. rochester , if you please : it would be better . "
" not it : she will be a restraint . " he was quite peremptory , both in look and voice .
the chill of mrs. fairfax 's warnings , and the damp of her doubts were upon me : something of unsubstantiality and uncertainty had beset my hopes . i half lost the sense of power over him .
i was about mechanically to obey him , without further remonstrance ; but as he helped me into the carriage , he looked at my face .
" what is the matter ? " he asked ; " all the sunshine is gone .
do you really wish the bairn to go ? will it annoy you if she is left behind ? "
" i would far rather she went , sir . "
" then off for your bonnet , and back like a flash of lightning ! " cried he to adele .
she obeyed him with what speed she might .
" after all , a single morning 's interruption will not matter much , " said he , " when i mean shortly to claim you--your thoughts , conversation , and company--for life . "
adele , when lifted in , commenced kissing me , by way of expressing her gratitude for my intercession : she was instantly stowed away into a corner on the other side of him .
she then peeped round to where i sat ; so stern a neighbour was too restrictive to him , in his present fractious mood , she dared whisper no observations , nor ask of him any information .
" let her come to me , " i entreated : " she will , perhaps , trouble you , sir : there is plenty of room on this side . "
he handed her over as if she had been a lapdog .
" i 'll send her to school yet , " he said , but now he was smiling .
adele heard him , and asked if she was to go to school " sans mademoiselle ? "
" yes , " he replied , " absolutely sans mademoiselle ; for i am to take mademoiselle to the moon , and there i shall seek a cave in one of the white valleys among the volcano-tops , and mademoiselle shall live with me there , and only me . "
" she will have nothing to eat : you will starve her , " observed adele .
" i shall gather manna for her morning and night : the plains and hillsides in the moon are bleached with manna , adele . "
" she will want to warm herself : what will she do for a fire ? "
" fire rises out of the lunar mountains : when she is cold , i 'll carry her up to a peak , and lay her down on the edge of a crater . "
" oh , qu ' elle y sera mal--peu comfortable !
and her clothes , they will wear out : how can she get new ones ? "
mr. rochester professed to be puzzled .
" hem ! " said he . " what would you do , adele ?
cudgel your brains for an expedient .
how would a white or a pink cloud answer for a gown , do you think ? and one could cut a pretty enough scarf out of a rainbow . "
" she is far better as she is , " concluded adele , after musing some time : " besides , she would get tired of living with only you in the moon .
if i were mademoiselle , i would never consent to go with you . "
" she has consented : she has pledged her word . "
" but you can 't get her there ; there is no road to the moon : it is all air ; and neither you nor she can fly . "
" adele , look at that field . "
we were now outside thornfield gates , and bowling lightly along the smooth road to millcote , where the dust was well laid by the thunderstorm , and , where the low hedges and lofty timber trees on each side glistened green and rain-refreshed .
" in that field , adele , i was walking late one evening about a fortnight since--the evening of the day you helped me to make hay in the orchard meadows ; and , as i was tired with raking swaths , i sat down to rest me on a stile ; and there i took out a little book and a pencil , and began to write about a misfortune that befell me long ago , and a wish i had for happy days to come : i was writing away very fast , though daylight was fading from the leaf , when something came up the path and stopped two yards off me .
i looked at it . it was a little thing with a veil of gossamer on its head .
i beckoned it to come near me ; it stood soon at my knee . i never spoke to it , and it never spoke to me , in words ; but i read its eyes , and it read mine ; and our speechless colloquy was to this effect--
" it was a fairy , and come from elf-land , it said ; and its errand was to make me happy : i must go with it out of the common world to a lonely place--such as the moon , for instance--and it nodded its head towards her horn , rising over hay-hill : it told me of the alabaster cave and silver vale where we might live .
i said i should like to go ; but reminded it , as you did me , that i had no wings to fly .
" ' oh , ' returned the fairy , ' that does not signify ! here is a talisman will remove all difficulties ; ' and she held out a pretty gold ring .
'put it , ' she said , ' on the fourth finger of my left hand , and i am yours , and you are mine ; and we shall leave earth , and make our own heaven yonder . '
she nodded again at the moon .
the ring , adele , is in my breeches-pocket , under the disguise of a sovereign : but i mean soon to change it to a ring again . "
" but what has mademoiselle to do with it ?
i don 't care for the fairy : you said it was mademoiselle you would take to the moon ? "
" mademoiselle is a fairy , " he said , whispering mysteriously .
whereupon i told her not to mind his badinage ; and she , on her part , evinced a fund of genuine french scepticism : denominating mr. rochester " un vrai menteur , " and assuring him that she made no account whatever of his " contes de fee , " and that " du reste , il n 'y avait pas de fees , et quand meme il y en avait : " she was sure they would never appear to him , nor ever give him rings , or offer to live with him in the moon .
the hour spent at millcote was a somewhat harassing one to me .
mr. rochester obliged me to go to a certain silk warehouse : there i was ordered to choose half-a-dozen dresses . i hated the business , i begged leave to defer it : no--it should be gone through with now .
by dint of entreaties expressed in energetic whispers , i reduced the half-dozen to two : these however , he vowed he would select himself .
with anxiety i watched his eye rove over the gay stores : he fixed on a rich silk of the most brilliant amethyst dye , and a superb pink satin .
i told him in a new series of whispers , that he might as well buy me a gold gown and a silver bonnet at once : i should certainly never venture to wear his choice .
with infinite difficulty , for he was stubborn as a stone , i persuaded him to make an exchange in favour of a sober black satin and pearl-grey silk .
" it might pass for the present , " he said ; " but he would yet see me glittering like a parterre . "
glad was i to get him out of the silk warehouse , and then out of a jewellers shop : the more he bought me , the more my cheek burned with a sense of annoyance and degradation .
as we re-entered the carriage , and i sat back feverish and fagged , i remembered what , in the hurry of events , dark and bright , i had wholly forgotten--the letter of my uncle , john eyre , to mrs. reed : his intention to adopt me and make me his legatee .
" it would , indeed , be a relief , " i thought , " if i had ever so small an independency ; i never can bear being dressed like a doll by mr. rochester , or sitting like a second danae with the golden shower falling daily round me .
i will write to madeira the moment i get home , and tell my uncle john i am going to be married , and to whom : if i had but a prospect of one day bringing mr. rochester an accession of fortune , i could better endure to be kept by him now . "
and somewhat relieved by this idea ( which i failed not to execute that day ) , i ventured once more to meet my master 's and lover 's eye , which most pertinaciously sought mine , though i averted both face and gaze . he smiled ; and i thought his smile was such as a sultan might , in a blissful and fond moment , bestow on a slave his gold and gems had enriched : i crushed his hand , which was ever hunting mine , vigorously , and thrust it back to him red with the passionate pressure .
" you need not look in that way , " i said ; " if you do , i 'll wear nothing but my old lowood frocks to the end of the chapter . i 'll be married in this lilac gingham : you may make a dressing-gown for yourself out of the pearl-grey silk , and an infinite series of waistcoats out of the black satin . " he chuckled ; he rubbed his hands .
" oh , it is rich to see and hear her ? " he exclaimed .
" is she original ? is she piquant ? i would not exchange this one little english girl for the grand turk 's whole seraglio , gazelle- eyes , houri forms , and all ! "
the eastern allusion bit me again .
" i 'll not stand you an inch in the stead of a seraglio , " i said ; " so don 't consider me an equivalent for one . if you have a fancy for anything in that line , away with you , sir , to the bazaars of stamboul without delay , and lay out in extensive slave- purchases some of that spare cash you seem at a loss to spend satisfactorily here . "
" and what will you do , janet , while i am bargaining for so many tons of flesh and such an assortment of black eyes ? "
" i 'll be preparing myself to go out as a missionary to preach liberty to them that are enslaved--your harem inmates amongst the rest . i 'll get admitted there , and i 'll stir up mutiny ; and you , three-tailed bashaw as you are , sir , shall in a trice find yourself fettered amongst our hands : nor will i , for one , consent to cut your bonds till you have signed a charter , the most liberal that despot ever yet conferred . "
" i would consent to be at your mercy , jane . "
" i would have no mercy , mr. rochester , if you supplicated for it with an eye like that . while you looked so , i should be certain that whatever charter you might grant under coercion , your first act , when released , would be to violate its conditions . "
" why , jane , what would you have ?
i fear you will compel me to go through a private marriage ceremony , besides that performed at the altar .
you will stipulate , i see , for peculiar terms--what will they be ? "
" i only want an easy mind , sir ; not crushed by crowded obligations .
do you remember what you said of celine varens ? --of the diamonds , the cashmeres you gave her ?
i will not be your english celine varens . i shall continue to act as adele 's governess ; by that i shall earn my board and lodging , and thirty pounds a year besides . i 'll furnish my own wardrobe out of that money , and you shall give me nothing but-- "
" well , but what ? "
" your regard ; and if i give you mine in return , that debt will be quit . "
" well , for cool native impudence and pure innate pride , you haven 't your equal , " said he .
we were now approaching thornfield .
" will it please you to dine with me to-day ? " he asked , as we re-entered the gates .
" no , thank you , sir . "
" and what for , ' no , thank you ? ' if one may inquire . "
" i never have dined with you , sir : and i see no reason why i should now : till-- "
" till what ? you delight in half-phrases . "
" till i can 't help it . "
" do you suppose i eat like an ogre or a ghoul , that you dread being the companion of my repast ? "
" i have formed no supposition on the subject , sir ; but i want to go on as usual for another month . "
" you will give up your governessing slavery at once . "
" indeed , begging your pardon , sir , i shall not . i shall just go on with it as usual .
i shall keep out of your way all day , as i have been accustomed to do : you may send for me in the evening , when you feel disposed to see me , and i 'll come then ; but at no other time . "
" i want a smoke , jane , or a pinch of snuff , to comfort me under all this , ' pour me donner une contenance , ' as adele would say ; and unfortunately i have neither my cigar-case , nor my snuff-box .
but listen--whisper . it is your time now , little tyrant , but it will be mine presently ; and when once i have fairly seized you , to have and to hold , i 'll just--figuratively speaking--attach you to a chain like this " ( touching his watch-guard ) . " yes , bonny wee thing , i 'll wear you in my bosom , lest my jewel i should tyne . "
he said this as he helped me to alight from the carriage , and while he afterwards lifted out adele , i entered the house , and made good my retreat upstairs .
he duly summoned me to his presence in the evening .
i had prepared an occupation for him ; for i was determined not to spend the whole time in a _ tete-a-tete _ conversation . i remembered his fine voice ; i knew he liked to sing--good singers generally do .
i was no vocalist myself , and , in his fastidious judgment , no musician , either ; but i delighted in listening when the performance was good .
no sooner had twilight , that hour of romance , began to lower her blue and starry banner over the lattice , than i rose , opened the piano , and entreated him , for the love of heaven , to give me a song .
he said i was a capricious witch , and that he would rather sing another time ; but i averred that no time was like the present .
" did i like his voice ? " he asked .
" very much . "
i was not fond of pampering that susceptible vanity of his ; but for once , and from motives of expediency , i would e 'en soothe and stimulate it .
" then , jane , you must play the accompaniment . "
" very well , sir , i will try . "
i did try , but was presently swept off the stool and denominated " a little bungler . " being pushed unceremoniously to one side--which was precisely what i wished--he usurped my place , and proceeded to accompany himself : for he could play as well as sing .
i hied me to the window-recess . and while i sat there and looked out on the still trees and dim lawn , to a sweet air was sung in mellow tones the following strain : --
" the truest love that ever heart felt at its kindled core , did through each vein , in quickened start , the tide of being pour .
her coming was my hope each day , her parting was my pain ; the chance that did her steps delay was ice in every vein .
i dreamed it would be nameless bliss , as i loved , loved to be ; and to this object did i press as blind as eagerly .
but wide as pathless was the space that lay our lives between , and dangerous as the foamy race of ocean-surges green .
and haunted as a robber-path through wilderness or wood ; for might and right , and woe and wrath , between our spirits stood .
i dangers dared ; i hindrance scorned ; i omens did defy : whatever menaced , harassed , warned , i passed impetuous by .
on sped my rainbow , fast as light ; i flew as in a dream ; for glorious rose upon my sight that child of shower and gleam .
still bright on clouds of suffering dim shines that soft , solemn joy ; nor care i now , how dense and grim disasters gather nigh .
i care not in this moment sweet , though all i have rushed o 'er should come on pinion , strong and fleet , proclaiming vengeance sore :
though haughty hate should strike me down , right , bar approach to me , and grinding might , with furious frown , swear endless enmity .
my love has placed her little hand with noble faith in mine , and vowed that wedlock 's sacred band our nature shall entwine .
my love has sworn , with sealing kiss , with me to live--to die ; i have at last my nameless bliss . as i love--loved am i ! "
he rose and came towards me , and i saw his face all kindled , and his full falcon-eye flashing , and tenderness and passion in every lineament .
i quailed momentarily--then i rallied . soft scene , daring demonstration , i would not have ; and i stood in peril of both : a weapon of defence must be prepared--i whetted my tongue : as he reached me , i asked with asperity , " whom he was going to marry now ? "
" that was a strange question to be put by his darling jane . "
" indeed ! i considered it a very natural and necessary one : he had talked of his future wife dying with him .
what did he mean by such a pagan idea ? _ i _ had no intention of dying with him--he might depend on that . "
" oh , all he longed , all he prayed for , was that i might live with him ! death was not for such as i. "
" indeed it was : i had as good a right to die when my time came as he had : but i should bide that time , and not be hurried away in a suttee . "
" would i forgive him for the selfish idea , and prove my pardon by a reconciling kiss ? "
" no : i would rather be excused . "
here i heard myself apostrophised as a " hard little thing ; " and it was added , " any other woman would have been melted to marrow at hearing such stanzas crooned in her praise . "
i assured him i was naturally hard--very flinty , and that he would often find me so ; and that , moreover , i was determined to show him divers rugged points in my character before the ensuing four weeks elapsed : he should know fully what sort of a bargain he had made , while there was yet time to rescind it .
" would i be quiet and talk rationally ? "
" i would be quiet if he liked , and as to talking rationally , i flattered myself i was doing that now . "
he fretted , pished , and pshawed .
" very good , " i thought ; " you may fume and fidget as you please : but this is the best plan to pursue with you , i am certain .
i like you more than i can say ; but i 'll not sink into a bathos of sentiment : and with this needle of repartee i 'll keep you from the edge of the gulf too ; and , moreover , maintain by its pungent aid that distance between you and myself most conducive to our real mutual advantage . "
from less to more , i worked him up to considerable irritation ; then , after he had retired , in dudgeon , quite to the other end of the room , i got up , and saying , " i wish you good-night , sir , " in my natural and wonted respectful manner , i slipped out by the side-door and got away .
the system thus entered on , i pursued during the whole season of probation ; and with the best success .
he was kept , to be sure , rather cross and crusty ; but on the whole i could see he was excellently entertained , and that a lamb-like submission and turtle-dove sensibility , while fostering his despotism more , would have pleased his judgment , satisfied his common-sense , and even suited his taste less .
in other people 's presence i was , as formerly , deferential and quiet ; any other line of conduct being uncalled for : it was only in the evening conferences i thus thwarted and afflicted him .
he continued to send for me punctually the moment the clock struck seven ; though when i appeared before him now , he had no such honeyed terms as " love " and " darling " on his lips : the best words at my service were " provoking puppet , " " malicious elf , " " sprite , " " changeling , " & c .
for caresses , too , i now got grimaces ; for a pressure of the hand , a pinch on the arm ; for a kiss on the cheek , a severe tweak of the ear . it was all right : at present i decidedly preferred these fierce favours to anything more tender .
mrs. fairfax , i saw , approved me : her anxiety on my account vanished ; therefore i was certain i did well .
meantime , mr. rochester affirmed i was wearing him to skin and bone , and threatened awful vengeance for my present conduct at some period fast coming .
i laughed in my sleeve at his menaces . " i can keep you in reasonable check now , " i reflected ; " and i don 't doubt to be able to do it hereafter : if one expedient loses its virtue , another must be devised . "
yet after all my task was not an easy one ; often i would rather have pleased than teased him .
my future husband was becoming to me my whole world ; and more than the world : almost my hope of heaven . he stood between me and every thought of religion , as an eclipse intervenes between man and the broad sun .
i could not , in those days , see god for his creature : of whom i had made an idol .
chapter xxv
the month of courtship had wasted : its very last hours were being numbered .
there was no putting off the day that advanced--the bridal day ; and all preparations for its arrival were complete . _ i _ , at least , had nothing more to do : there were my trunks , packed , locked , corded , ranged in a row along the wall of my little chamber ; to-morrow , at this time , they would be far on their road to london : and so should i ( d.v. ) , --or rather , not i , but one jane rochester , a person whom as yet i knew not .
the cards of address alone remained to nail on : they lay , four little squares , in the drawer .
mr. rochester had himself written the direction , " mrs. rochester , --- hotel , london , " on each : i could not persuade myself to affix them , or to have them affixed .
mrs. rochester !
she did not exist : she would not be born till to-morrow , some time after eight o 'clock a.m. ; and i would wait to be assured she had come into the world alive before i assigned to her all that property .
it was enough that in yonder closet , opposite my dressing-table , garments said to be hers had already displaced my black stuff lowood frock and straw bonnet : for not to me appertained that suit of wedding raiment ; the pearl-coloured robe , the vapoury veil pendent from the usurped portmanteau .
i shut the closet to conceal the strange , wraith-like apparel it contained ; which , at this evening hour--nine o 'clock--gave out certainly a most ghostly shimmer through the shadow of my apartment .
" i will leave you by yourself , white dream , " i said .
" i am feverish : i hear the wind blowing : i will go out of doors and feel it . "
it was not only the hurry of preparation that made me feverish ; not only the anticipation of the great change--the new life which was to commence to-morrow : both these circumstances had their share , doubtless , in producing that restless , excited mood which hurried me forth at this late hour into the darkening grounds : but a third cause influenced my mind more than they .
i had at heart a strange and anxious thought . something had happened which i could not comprehend ; no one knew of or had seen the event but myself : it had taken place the preceding night .
mr. rochester that night was absent from home ; nor was he yet returned : business had called him to a small estate of two or three farms he possessed thirty miles off--business it was requisite he should settle in person , previous to his meditated departure from england .
i waited now his return ; eager to disburthen my mind , and to seek of him the solution of the enigma that perplexed me .
stay till he comes , reader ; and , when i disclose my secret to him , you shall share the confidence .
i sought the orchard , driven to its shelter by the wind , which all day had blown strong and full from the south , without , however , bringing a speck of rain .
instead of subsiding as night drew on , it seemed to augment its rush and deepen its roar : the trees blew steadfastly one way , never writhing round , and scarcely tossing back their boughs once in an hour ; so continuous was the strain bending their branchy heads northward--the clouds drifted from pole to pole , fast following , mass on mass : no glimpse of blue sky had been visible that july day .
it was not without a certain wild pleasure i ran before the wind , delivering my trouble of mind to the measureless air-torrent thundering through space .
descending the laurel walk , i faced the wreck of the chestnut-tree ; it stood up black and riven : the trunk , split down the centre , gasped ghastly .
the cloven halves were not broken from each other , for the firm base and strong roots kept them unsundered below ; though community of vitality was destroyed--the sap could flow no more : their great boughs on each side were dead , and next winter 's tempests would be sure to fell one or both to earth : as yet , however , they might be said to form one tree--a ruin , but an entire ruin .
" you did right to hold fast to each other , " i said : as if the monster- splinters were living things , and could hear me .
" i think , scathed as you look , and charred and scorched , there must be a little sense of life in you yet , rising out of that adhesion at the faithful , honest roots : you will never have green leaves more--never more see birds making nests and singing idyls in your boughs ; the time of pleasure and love is over with you : but you are not desolate : each of you has a comrade to sympathise with him in his decay . "
as i looked up at them , the moon appeared momentarily in that part of the sky which filled their fissure ; her disk was blood-red and half overcast ; she seemed to throw on me one bewildered , dreary glance , and buried herself again instantly in the deep drift of cloud .
the wind fell , for a second , round thornfield ; but far away over wood and water , poured a wild , melancholy wail : it was sad to listen to , and i ran off again .
here and there i strayed through the orchard , gathered up the apples with which the grass round the tree roots was thickly strewn ; then i employed myself in dividing the ripe from the unripe ; i carried them into the house and put them away in the store-room . then i repaired to the library to ascertain whether the fire was lit , for , though summer , i knew on such a gloomy evening mr. rochester would like to see a cheerful hearth when he came in : yes , the fire had been kindled some time , and burnt well .
i placed his arm-chair by the chimney-corner : i wheeled the table near it : i let down the curtain , and had the candles brought in ready for lighting .
more restless than ever , when i had completed these arrangements i could not sit still , nor even remain in the house : a little time-piece in the room and the old clock in the hall simultaneously struck ten .
" how late it grows ! " i said . " i will run down to the gates : it is moonlight at intervals ; i can see a good way on the road . he may be coming now , and to meet him will save some minutes of suspense . "
the wind roared high in the great trees which embowered the gates ; but the road as far as i could see , to the right hand and the left , was all still and solitary : save for the shadows of clouds crossing it at intervals as the moon looked out , it was but a long pale line , unvaried by one moving speck .
a puerile tear dimmed my eye while i looked--a tear of disappointment and impatience ; ashamed of it , i wiped it away .
i lingered ; the moon shut herself wholly within her chamber , and drew close her curtain of dense cloud : the night grew dark ; rain came driving fast on the gale .
" i wish he would come ! i wish he would come ! " i exclaimed , seized with hypochondriac foreboding .
i had expected his arrival before tea ; now it was dark : what could keep him ?
had an accident happened ?
the event of last night again recurred to me .
i interpreted it as a warning of disaster . i feared my hopes were too bright to be realised ; and i had enjoyed so much bliss lately that i imagined my fortune had passed its meridian , and must now decline .
" well , i cannot return to the house , " i thought ; " i cannot sit by the fireside , while he is abroad in inclement weather : better tire my limbs than strain my heart ; i will go forward and meet him . "
i set out ; i walked fast , but not far : ere i had measured a quarter of a mile , i heard the tramp of hoofs ; a horseman came on , full gallop ; a dog ran by his side .
away with evil presentiment ! it was he : here he was , mounted on mesrour , followed by pilot .
he saw me ; for the moon had opened a blue field in the sky , and rode in it watery bright : he took his hat off , and waved it round his head . i now ran to meet him .
" there ! " he exclaimed , as he stretched out his hand and bent from the saddle : " you can 't do without me , that is evident . step on my boot-toe ; give me both hands : mount ! "
i obeyed : joy made me agile : i sprang up before him . a hearty kissing i got for a welcome , and some boastful triumph , which i swallowed as well as i could .
he checked himself in his exultation to demand , " but is there anything the matter , janet , that you come to meet me at such an hour ?
is there anything wrong ? "
" no , but i thought you would never come . i could not bear to wait in the house for you , especially with this rain and wind . "
" rain and wind , indeed !
yes , you are dripping like a mermaid ; pull my cloak round you : but i think you are feverish , jane : both your cheek and hand are burning hot .
i ask again , is there anything the matter ? "
" nothing now ; i am neither afraid nor unhappy . "
" then you have been both ? "
" rather : but i 'll tell you all about it by-and-bye , sir ; and i daresay you will only laugh at me for my pains . "
" i 'll laugh at you heartily when to-morrow is past ; till then i dare not : my prize is not certain .
this is you , who have been as slippery as an eel this last month , and as thorny as a briar-rose ? i could not lay a finger anywhere but i was pricked ; and now i seem to have gathered up a stray lamb in my arms .
you wandered out of the fold to seek your shepherd , did you , jane ? "
" i wanted you : but don 't boast .
here we are at thornfield : now let me get down . "
he landed me on the pavement . as john took his horse , and he followed me into the hall , he told me to make haste and put something dry on , and then return to him in the library ; and he stopped me , as i made for the staircase , to extort a promise that i would not be long : nor was i long ; in five minutes i rejoined him .
" take a seat and bear me company , jane : please god , it is the last meal but one you will eat at thornfield hall for a long time . "
i sat down near him , but told him i could not eat .
" is it because you have the prospect of a journey before you , jane ? is it the thoughts of going to london that takes away your appetite ? "
" i cannot see my prospects clearly to-night , sir ; and i hardly know what thoughts i have in my head . everything in life seems unreal . "
" except me : i am substantial enough--touch me . "
" you , sir , are the most phantom-like of all : you are a mere dream . "
he held out his hand , laughing .
" is that a dream ? " said he , placing it close to my eyes .
he had a rounded , muscular , and vigorous hand , as well as a long , strong arm .
" yes ; though i touch it , it is a dream , " said i , as i put it down from before my face .
" sir , have you finished supper ? "
" yes , jane . "
i rang the bell and ordered away the tray .
when we were again alone , i stirred the fire , and then took a low seat at my master 's knee .
" it is near midnight , " i said .
" yes : but remember , jane , you promised to wake with me the night before my wedding . "
" i did ; and i will keep my promise , for an hour or two at least : i have no wish to go to bed . "
" are all your arrangements complete ? "
" all , sir . "
" and on my part likewise , " he returned , " i have settled everything ; and we shall leave thornfield to-morrow , within half-an-hour after our return from church . "
" very well , sir . "
" with what an extraordinary smile you uttered that word-- ' very well , ' jane ! what a bright spot of colour you have on each cheek ! and how strangely your eyes glitter !
are you well ? "
" i believe i am . "
what is the matter ?
tell me what you feel . "
" i could not , sir : no words could tell you what i feel .
i wish this present hour would never end : who knows with what fate the next may come charged ? "
" this is hypochondria , jane . you have been over-excited , or over-fatigued . "
" do you , sir , feel calm and happy ? "
" calm ? --no : but happy--to the heart 's core . "
i looked up at him to read the signs of bliss in his face : it was ardent and flushed .
" give me your confidence , jane , " he said : " relieve your mind of any weight that oppresses it , by imparting it to me .
what do you fear ? --that i shall not prove a good husband ? "
" it is the idea farthest from my thoughts . "
" are you apprehensive of the new sphere you are about to enter ? --of the new life into which you are passing ? "
" no . "
" you puzzle me , jane : your look and tone of sorrowful audacity perplex and pain me . i want an explanation . "
" then , sir , listen .
you were from home last night ? "
" i was : i know that ; and you hinted a while ago at something which had happened in my absence : --nothing , probably , of consequence ; but , in short , it has disturbed you . let me hear it .
mrs. fairfax has said something , perhaps ? or you have overheard the servants talk ? --your sensitive self-respect has been wounded ? "
" no , sir . "
it struck twelve--i waited till the time-piece had concluded its silver chime , and the clock its hoarse , vibrating stroke , and then i proceeded .
" all day yesterday i was very busy , and very happy in my ceaseless bustle ; for i am not , as you seem to think , troubled by any haunting fears about the new sphere , et cetera : i think it a glorious thing to have the hope of living with you , because i love you .
no , sir , don 't caress me now--let me talk undisturbed .
yesterday i trusted well in providence , and believed that events were working together for your good and mine : it was a fine day , if you recollect--the calmness of the air and sky forbade apprehensions respecting your safety or comfort on your journey .
i walked a little while on the pavement after tea , thinking of you ; and i beheld you in imagination so near me , i scarcely missed your actual presence .
i thought of the life that lay before me-- _ your _ life , sir--an existence more expansive and stirring than my own : as much more so as the depths of the sea to which the brook runs are than the shallows of its own strait channel .
i wondered why moralists call this world a dreary wilderness : for me it blossomed like a rose .
just at sunset , the air turned cold and the sky cloudy : i went in , sophie called me upstairs to look at my wedding-dress , which they had just brought ; and under it in the box i found your present--the veil which , in your princely extravagance , you sent for from london : resolved , i suppose , since i would not have jewels , to cheat me into accepting something as costly .
i smiled as i unfolded it , and devised how i would tease you about your aristocratic tastes , and your efforts to masque your plebeian bride in the attributes of a peeress . i thought how i would carry down to you the square of unembroidered blond i had myself prepared as a covering for my low-born head , and ask if that was not good enough for a woman who could bring her husband neither fortune , beauty , nor connections .
i saw plainly how you would look ; and heard your impetuous republican answers , and your haughty disavowal of any necessity on your part to augment your wealth , or elevate your standing , by marrying either a purse or a coronet . "
" how well you read me , you witch ! " interposed mr. rochester : " but what did you find in the veil besides its embroidery ?
did you find poison , or a dagger , that you look so mournful now ? "
" no , no , sir ; besides the delicacy and richness of the fabric , i found nothing save fairfax rochester 's pride ; and that did not scare me , because i am used to the sight of the demon .
but , sir , as it grew dark , the wind rose : it blew yesterday evening , not as it blows now--wild and high--but ' with a sullen , moaning sound ' far more eerie . i wished you were at home .
i came into this room , and the sight of the empty chair and fireless hearth chilled me .
for some time after i went to bed , i could not sleep--a sense of anxious excitement distressed me .
the gale still rising , seemed to my ear to muffle a mournful under-sound ; whether in the house or abroad i could not at first tell , but it recurred , doubtful yet doleful at every lull ; at last i made out it must be some dog howling at a distance .
i was glad when it ceased . on sleeping , i continued in dreams the idea of a dark and gusty night . i continued also the wish to be with you , and experienced a strange , regretful consciousness of some barrier dividing us .
during all my first sleep , i was following the windings of an unknown road ; total obscurity environed me ; rain pelted me ; i was burdened with the charge of a little child : a very small creature , too young and feeble to walk , and which shivered in my cold arms , and wailed piteously in my ear .
i thought , sir , that you were on the road a long way before me ; and i strained every nerve to overtake you , and made effort on effort to utter your name and entreat you to stop--but my movements were fettered , and my voice still died away inarticulate ; while you , i felt , withdrew farther and farther every moment . "
" and these dreams weigh on your spirits now , jane , when i am close to you ? little nervous subject !
forget visionary woe , and think only of real happiness !
you say you love me , janet : yes--i will not forget that ; and you cannot deny it . _ those _ words did not die inarticulate on your lips . i heard them clear and soft : a thought too solemn perhaps , but sweet as music--
'i think it is a glorious thing to have the hope of living with you , edward , because i love you . '
do you love me , jane ? --repeat it . "
" i do , sir--i do , with my whole heart . "
" well , " he said , after some minutes ' silence , " it is strange ; but that sentence has penetrated my breast painfully .
why ? i think because you said it with such an earnest , religious energy , and because your upward gaze at me now is the very sublime of faith , truth , and devotion : it is too much as if some spirit were near me .
look wicked , jane : as you know well how to look : coin one of your wild , shy , provoking smiles ; tell me you hate me--tease me , vex me ; do anything but move me : i would rather be incensed than saddened . "
" i will tease you and vex you to your heart 's content , when i have finished my tale : but hear me to the end . "
" i thought , jane , you had told me all . i thought i had found the source of your melancholy in a dream . "
i shook my head .
" what ! is there more ?
but i will not believe it to be anything important . i warn you of incredulity beforehand .
go on . "
the disquietude of his air , the somewhat apprehensive impatience of his manner , surprised me : but i proceeded .
" i dreamt another dream , sir : that thornfield hall was a dreary ruin , the retreat of bats and owls . i thought that of all the stately front nothing remained but a shell-like wall , very high and very fragile-looking . i wandered , on a moonlight night , through the grass- grown enclosure within : here i stumbled over a marble hearth , and there over a fallen fragment of cornice .
wrapped up in a shawl , i still carried the unknown little child : i might not lay it down anywhere , however tired were my arms--however much its weight impeded my progress , i must retain it .
i heard the gallop of a horse at a distance on the road ; i was sure it was you ; and you were departing for many years and for a distant country .
i climbed the thin wall with frantic perilous haste , eager to catch one glimpse of you from the top : the stones rolled from under my feet , the ivy branches i grasped gave way , the child clung round my neck in terror , and almost strangled me ; at last i gained the summit . i saw you like a speck on a white track , lessening every moment .
the blast blew so strong i could not stand .
i sat down on the narrow ledge ; i hushed the scared infant in my lap : you turned an angle of the road : i bent forward to take a last look ; the wall crumbled ; i was shaken ; the child rolled from my knee , i lost my balance , fell , and woke . "
" now , jane , that is all . "
" all the preface , sir ; the tale is yet to come .
on waking , a gleam dazzled my eyes ; i thought--oh , it is daylight !
but i was mistaken ; it was only candlelight .
sophie , i supposed , had come in . there was a light in the dressing-table , and the door of the closet , where , before going to bed , i had hung my wedding-dress and veil , stood open ; i heard a rustling there .
i asked , ' sophie , what are you doing ? '
no one answered ; but a form emerged from the closet ; it took the light , held it aloft , and surveyed the garments pendent from the portmanteau . ' sophie !
sophie ! ' i again cried : and still it was silent .
i had risen up in bed , i bent forward : first surprise , then bewilderment , came over me ; and then my blood crept cold through my veins .
mr. rochester , this was not sophie , it was not leah , it was not mrs. fairfax : it was not--no , i was sure of it , and am still--it was not even that strange woman , grace poole . "
" it must have been one of them , " interrupted my master .
" no , sir , i solemnly assure you to the contrary .
the shape standing before me had never crossed my eyes within the precincts of thornfield hall before ; the height , the contour were new to me . "
" describe it , jane . "
" it seemed , sir , a woman , tall and large , with thick and dark hair hanging long down her back .
i know not what dress she had on : it was white and straight ; but whether gown , sheet , or shroud , i cannot tell . "
" did you see her face ? "
" not at first . but presently she took my veil from its place ; she held it up , gazed at it long , and then she threw it over her own head , and turned to the mirror . at that moment i saw the reflection of the visage and features quite distinctly in the dark oblong glass . "
" and how were they ? "
" fearful and ghastly to me--oh , sir , i never saw a face like it !
it was a discoloured face--it was a savage face . i wish i could forget the roll of the red eyes and the fearful blackened inflation of the lineaments ! "
" ghosts are usually pale , jane . "
" this , sir , was purple : the lips were swelled and dark ; the brow furrowed : the black eyebrows widely raised over the bloodshot eyes .
shall i tell you of what it reminded me ? "
" you may . "
" of the foul german spectre--the vampyre . "
" ah ! --what did it do ? "
" sir , it removed my veil from its gaunt head , rent it in two parts , and flinging both on the floor , trampled on them . "
" afterwards ? "
" it drew aside the window-curtain and looked out ; perhaps it saw dawn approaching , for , taking the candle , it retreated to the door . just at my bedside , the figure stopped : the fiery eyes glared upon me--she thrust up her candle close to my face , and extinguished it under my eyes .
i was aware her lurid visage flamed over mine , and i lost consciousness : for the second time in my life--only the second time--i became insensible from terror . "
" who was with you when you revived ? "
" no one , sir , but the broad day .
i rose , bathed my head and face in water , drank a long draught ; felt that though enfeebled i was not ill , and determined that to none but you would i impart this vision .
now , sir , tell me who and what that woman was ? "
" the creature of an over-stimulated brain ; that is certain . i must be careful of you , my treasure : nerves like yours were not made for rough handling . "
" sir , depend on it , my nerves were not in fault ; the thing was real : the transaction actually took place . "
" and your previous dreams , were they real too ?
is thornfield hall a ruin ?
am i severed from you by insuperable obstacles ?
am i leaving you without a tear--without a kiss--without a word ? "
" not yet . "
" am i about to do it ?
why , the day is already commenced which is to bind us indissolubly ; and when we are once united , there shall be no recurrence of these mental terrors : i guarantee that . "
" mental terrors , sir !
i wish i could believe them to be only such : i wish it more now than ever ; since even you cannot explain to me the mystery of that awful visitant . "
" and since i cannot do it , jane , it must have been unreal . "
" but , sir , when i said so to myself on rising this morning , and when i looked round the room to gather courage and comfort from the cheerful aspect of each familiar object in full daylight , there--on the carpet--i saw what gave the distinct lie to my hypothesis , --the veil , torn from top to bottom in two halves ! "
i felt mr. rochester start and shudder ; he hastily flung his arms round me .
" thank god ! " he exclaimed , " that if anything malignant did come near you last night , it was only the veil that was harmed .
oh , to think what might have happened ! "
he drew his breath short , and strained me so close to him , i could scarcely pant .
after some minutes ' silence , he continued , cheerily--
" now , janet , i 'll explain to you all about it . it was half dream , half reality . a woman did , i doubt not , enter your room : and that woman was--must have been--grace poole .
you call her a strange being yourself : from all you know , you have reason so to call her--what did she do to me ? what to mason ?
in a state between sleeping and waking , you noticed her entrance and her actions ; but feverish , almost delirious as you were , you ascribed to her a goblin appearance different from her own : the long dishevelled hair , the swelled black face , the exaggerated stature , were figments of imagination ; results of nightmare : the spiteful tearing of the veil was real : and it is like her .
i see you would ask why i keep such a woman in my house : when we have been married a year and a day , i will tell you ; but not now .
are you satisfied , jane ?
do you accept my solution of the mystery ? "
i reflected , and in truth it appeared to me the only possible one : satisfied i was not , but to please him i endeavoured to appear so--relieved , i certainly did feel ; so i answered him with a contented smile .
and now , as it was long past one , i prepared to leave him .
" does not sophie sleep with adele in the nursery ? " he asked , as i lit my candle .
" yes , sir . "
" and there is room enough in adele 's little bed for you .
you must share it with her to-night , jane : it is no wonder that the incident you have related should make you nervous , and i would rather you did not sleep alone : promise me to go to the nursery . "
" i shall be very glad to do so , sir . "
" and fasten the door securely on the inside .
wake sophie when you go upstairs , under pretence of requesting her to rouse you in good time to- morrow ; for you must be dressed and have finished breakfast before eight .
and now , no more sombre thoughts : chase dull care away , janet .
don 't you hear to what soft whispers the wind has fallen ? and there is no more beating of rain against the window-panes : look here " ( he lifted up the curtain ) -- " it is a lovely night ! "
it was . half heaven was pure and stainless : the clouds , now trooping before the wind , which had shifted to the west , were filing off eastward in long , silvered columns . the moon shone peacefully .
" well , " said mr. rochester , gazing inquiringly into my eyes , " how is my janet now ? "
" the night is serene , sir ; and so am i. "
" and you will not dream of separation and sorrow to-night ; but of happy love and blissful union . "
this prediction was but half fulfilled : i did not indeed dream of sorrow , but as little did i dream of joy ; for i never slept at all .
with little adele in my arms , i watched the slumber of childhood--so tranquil , so passionless , so innocent--and waited for the coming day : all my life was awake and astir in my frame : and as soon as the sun rose i rose too .
i remember adele clung to me as i left her : i remember i kissed her as i loosened her little hands from my neck ; and i cried over her with strange emotion , and quitted her because i feared my sobs would break her still sound repose .
she seemed the emblem of my past life ; and here i was now to array myself to meet , the dread , but adored , type of my unknown future day .
chapter xxvi
sophie came at seven to dress me : she was very long indeed in accomplishing her task ; so long that mr. rochester , grown , i suppose , impatient of my delay , sent up to ask why i did not come .
she was just fastening my veil ( the plain square of blond after all ) to my hair with a brooch ; i hurried from under her hands as soon as i could .
" stop ! " she cried in french . " look at yourself in the mirror : you have not taken one peep . "
so i turned at the door : i saw a robed and veiled figure , so unlike my usual self that it seemed almost the image of a stranger .
" jane ! " called a voice , and i hastened down .
i was received at the foot of the stairs by mr. rochester .
" lingerer ! " he said , " my brain is on fire with impatience , and you tarry so long ! "
he took me into the dining-room , surveyed me keenly all over , pronounced me " fair as a lily , and not only the pride of his life , but the desire of his eyes , " and then telling me he would give me but ten minutes to eat some breakfast , he rang the bell .
one of his lately hired servants , a footman , answered it .
" is john getting the carriage ready ? "
" yes , sir . "
" is the luggage brought down ? "
" they are bringing it down , sir . "
" go you to the church : see if mr. wood ( the clergyman ) and the clerk are there : return and tell me . "
the church , as the reader knows , was but just beyond the gates ; the footman soon returned .
" mr. wood is in the vestry , sir , putting on his surplice . "
" and the carriage ? "
" the horses are harnessing . "
" we shall not want it to go to church ; but it must be ready the moment we return : all the boxes and luggage arranged and strapped on , and the coachman in his seat . "
" yes , sir . "
" jane , are you ready ? "
i rose .
there were no groomsmen , no bridesmaids , no relatives to wait for or marshal : none but mr. rochester and i. mrs. fairfax stood in the hall as we passed .
i would fain have spoken to her , but my hand was held by a grasp of iron : i was hurried along by a stride i could hardly follow ; and to look at mr. rochester 's face was to feel that not a second of delay would be tolerated for any purpose .
i wonder what other bridegroom ever looked as he did--so bent up to a purpose , so grimly resolute : or who , under such steadfast brows , ever revealed such flaming and flashing eyes .
i know not whether the day was fair or foul ; in descending the drive , i gazed neither on sky nor earth : my heart was with my eyes ; and both seemed migrated into mr. rochester 's frame .
i wanted to see the invisible thing on which , as we went along , he appeared to fasten a glance fierce and fell . i wanted to feel the thoughts whose force he seemed breasting and resisting .
at the churchyard wicket he stopped : he discovered i was quite out of breath .
" am i cruel in my love ? " he said . " delay an instant : lean on me , jane . "
and now i can recall the picture of the grey old house of god rising calm before me , of a rook wheeling round the steeple , of a ruddy morning sky beyond .
i remember something , too , of the green grave-mounds ; and i have not forgotten , either , two figures of strangers straying amongst the low hillocks and reading the mementoes graven on the few mossy head-stones .
i noticed them , because , as they saw us , they passed round to the back of the church ; and i doubted not they were going to enter by the side-aisle door and witness the ceremony .
by mr. rochester they were not observed ; he was earnestly looking at my face from which the blood had , i daresay , momentarily fled : for i felt my forehead dewy , and my cheeks and lips cold .
when i rallied , which i soon did , he walked gently with me up the path to the porch .
we entered the quiet and humble temple ; the priest waited in his white surplice at the lowly altar , the clerk beside him .
all was still : two shadows only moved in a remote corner .
my conjecture had been correct : the strangers had slipped in before us , and they now stood by the vault of the rochesters , their backs towards us , viewing through the rails the old time-stained marble tomb , where a kneeling angel guarded the remains of damer de rochester , slain at marston moor in the time of the civil wars , and of elizabeth , his wife .
our place was taken at the communion rails .
hearing a cautious step behind me , i glanced over my shoulder : one of the strangers--a gentleman , evidently--was advancing up the chancel .
the service began . the explanation of the intent of matrimony was gone through ; and then the clergyman came a step further forward , and , bending slightly towards mr. rochester , went on .
" i require and charge you both ( as ye will answer at the dreadful day of judgment , when the secrets of all hearts shall be disclosed ) , that if either of you know any impediment why ye may not lawfully be joined together in matrimony , ye do now confess it ; for be ye well assured that so many as are coupled together otherwise than god 's word doth allow , are not joined together by god , neither is their matrimony lawful . "
he paused , as the custom is . when is the pause after that sentence ever broken by reply ? not , perhaps , once in a hundred years .
and the clergyman , who had not lifted his eyes from his book , and had held his breath but for a moment , was proceeding : his hand was already stretched towards mr. rochester , as his lips unclosed to ask , " wilt thou have this woman for thy wedded wife ? " --when a distinct and near voice said--
" the marriage cannot go on : i declare the existence of an impediment . "
the clergyman looked up at the speaker and stood mute ; the clerk did the same ; mr. rochester moved slightly , as if an earthquake had rolled under his feet : taking a firmer footing , and not turning his head or eyes , he said , " proceed . "
profound silence fell when he had uttered that word , with deep but low intonation .
presently mr. wood said--
" i cannot proceed without some investigation into what has been asserted , and evidence of its truth or falsehood . "
" the ceremony is quite broken off , " subjoined the voice behind us . " i am in a condition to prove my allegation : an insuperable impediment to this marriage exists . "
mr. rochester heard , but heeded not : he stood stubborn and rigid , making no movement but to possess himself of my hand .
what a hot and strong grasp he had ! and how like quarried marble was his pale , firm , massive front at this moment ! how his eye shone , still watchful , and yet wild beneath !
mr. wood seemed at a loss .
" what is the nature of the impediment ? " he asked . " perhaps it may be got over--explained away ? "
" hardly , " was the answer . " i have called it insuperable , and i speak advisedly . "
the speaker came forward and leaned on the rails . he continued , uttering each word distinctly , calmly , steadily , but not loudly--
" it simply consists in the existence of a previous marriage . mr. rochester has a wife now living . "
my nerves vibrated to those low-spoken words as they had never vibrated to thunder--my blood felt their subtle violence as it had never felt frost or fire ; but i was collected , and in no danger of swooning .
i looked at mr. rochester : i made him look at me . his whole face was colourless rock : his eye was both spark and flint . he disavowed nothing : he seemed as if he would defy all things .
without speaking , without smiling , without seeming to recognise in me a human being , he only twined my waist with his arm and riveted me to his side .
" who are you ? " he asked of the intruder .
" my name is briggs , a solicitor of --- street , london . "
" and you would thrust on me a wife ? "
" i would remind you of your lady 's existence , sir , which the law recognises , if you do not . "
" favour me with an account of her--with her name , her parentage , her place of abode . "
" certainly . "
mr. briggs calmly took a paper from his pocket , and read out in a sort of official , nasal voice : --
" ' i affirm and can prove that on the 20th of october a.d. --- ( a date of fifteen years back ) , edward fairfax rochester , of thornfield hall , in the county of --- , and of ferndean manor , in ---shire , england , was married to my sister , bertha antoinetta mason , daughter of jonas mason , merchant , and of antoinetta his wife , a creole , at --- church , spanish town , jamaica . the record of the marriage will be found in the register of that church--a copy of it is now in my possession .
signed , richard mason . ' "
" that--if a genuine document--may prove i have been married , but it does not prove that the woman mentioned therein as my wife is still living . "
" she was living three months ago , " returned the lawyer .
" how do you know ? "
" i have a witness to the fact , whose testimony even you , sir , will scarcely controvert . "
" produce him--or go to hell . "
" i will produce him first--he is on the spot .
mr. mason , have the goodness to step forward . "
mr. rochester , on hearing the name , set his teeth ; he experienced , too , a sort of strong convulsive quiver ; near to him as i was , i felt the spasmodic movement of fury or despair run through his frame .
the second stranger , who had hitherto lingered in the background , now drew near ; a pale face looked over the solicitor 's shoulder--yes , it was mason himself .
mr. rochester turned and glared at him .
his eye , as i have often said , was a black eye : it had now a tawny , nay , a bloody light in its gloom ; and his face flushed--olive cheek and hueless forehead received a glow as from spreading , ascending heart-fire : and he stirred , lifted his strong arm--he could have struck mason , dashed him on the church-floor , shocked by ruthless blow the breath from his body--but mason shrank away , and cried faintly , " good god ! "
contempt fell cool on mr. rochester--his passion died as if a blight had shrivelled it up : he only asked-- " what have _ you _ to say ? "
an inaudible reply escaped mason 's white lips .
" the devil is in it if you cannot answer distinctly .
i again demand , what have you to say ? "
" sir--sir , " interrupted the clergyman , " do not forget you are in a sacred place . "
then addressing mason , he inquired gently , " are you aware , sir , whether or not this gentleman 's wife is still living ? "
" courage , " urged the lawyer , -- " speak out . "
" she is now living at thornfield hall , " said mason , in more articulate tones : " i saw her there last april . i am her brother . "
" at thornfield hall ! " ejaculated the clergyman . " impossible ! i am an old resident in this neighbourhood , sir , and i never heard of a mrs. rochester at thornfield hall . "
i saw a grim smile contort mr. rochester 's lips , and he muttered--
" no , by god ! i took care that none should hear of it--or of her under that name . "
he mused--for ten minutes he held counsel with himself : he formed his resolve , and announced it-- " enough ! all shall bolt out at once , like the bullet from the barrel .
wood , close your book and take off your surplice ; john green ( to the clerk ) , leave the church : there will be no wedding to-day . "
the man obeyed .
mr. rochester continued , hardily and recklessly : " bigamy is an ugly word ! --i meant , however , to be a bigamist ; but fate has out-manoeuvred me , or providence has checked me , --perhaps the last .
i am little better than a devil at this moment ; and , as my pastor there would tell me , deserve no doubt the sternest judgments of god , even to the quenchless fire and deathless worm .
gentlemen , my plan is broken up : --what this lawyer and his client say is true : i have been married , and the woman to whom i was married lives !
you say you never heard of a mrs. rochester at the house up yonder , wood ; but i daresay you have many a time inclined your ear to gossip about the mysterious lunatic kept there under watch and ward . some have whispered to you that she is my bastard half-sister : some , my cast-off mistress .
i now inform you that she is my wife , whom i married fifteen years ago , --bertha mason by name ; sister of this resolute personage , who is now , with his quivering limbs and white cheeks , showing you what a stout heart men may bear .
cheer up , dick ! --never fear me ! --i 'd almost as soon strike a woman as you .
bertha mason is mad ; and she came of a mad family ; idiots and maniacs through three generations ! her mother , the creole , was both a madwoman and a drunkard ! --as i found out after i had wed the daughter : for they were silent on family secrets before .
bertha , like a dutiful child , copied her parent in both points .
i had a charming partner--pure , wise , modest : you can fancy i was a happy man . i went through rich scenes !
oh ! my experience has been heavenly , if you only knew it !
but i owe you no further explanation .
briggs , wood , mason , i invite you all to come up to the house and visit mrs. poole 's patient , and _ my wife _ ! you shall see what sort of a being i was cheated into espousing , and judge whether or not i had a right to break the compact , and seek sympathy with something at least human .
this girl , " he continued , looking at me , " knew no more than you , wood , of the disgusting secret : she thought all was fair and legal and never dreamt she was going to be entrapped into a feigned union with a defrauded wretch , already bound to a bad , mad , and embruted partner !
come all of you--follow ! "
still holding me fast , he left the church : the three gentlemen came after . at the front door of the hall we found the carriage .
" take it back to the coach-house , john , " said mr. rochester coolly ; " it will not be wanted to-day . "
at our entrance , mrs. fairfax , adele , sophie , leah , advanced to meet and greet us .
" to the right-about--every soul ! " cried the master ; " away with your congratulations ! who wants them ? not i ! --they are fifteen years too late ! "
he passed on and ascended the stairs , still holding my hand , and still beckoning the gentlemen to follow him , which they did .
we mounted the first staircase , passed up the gallery , proceeded to the third storey : the low , black door , opened by mr. rochester 's master-key , admitted us to the tapestried room , with its great bed and its pictorial cabinet .
" you know this place , mason , " said our guide ; " she bit and stabbed you here . "
he lifted the hangings from the wall , uncovering the second door : this , too , he opened .
in a room without a window , there burnt a fire guarded by a high and strong fender , and a lamp suspended from the ceiling by a chain . grace poole bent over the fire , apparently cooking something in a saucepan .
in the deep shade , at the farther end of the room , a figure ran backwards and forwards . what it was , whether beast or human being , one could not , at first sight , tell : it grovelled , seemingly , on all fours ; it snatched and growled like some strange wild animal : but it was covered with clothing , and a quantity of dark , grizzled hair , wild as a mane , hid its head and face .
" good-morrow , mrs. poole ! " said mr. rochester . " how are you ? and how is your charge to-day ? "
" we 're tolerable , sir , i thank you , " replied grace , lifting the boiling mess carefully on to the hob : " rather snappish , but not ' rageous . "
a fierce cry seemed to give the lie to her favourable report : the clothed hyena rose up , and stood tall on its hind-feet .
" ah ! sir , she sees you ! " exclaimed grace : " you 'd better not stay . "
" only a few moments , grace : you must allow me a few moments . "
" take care then , sir ! --for god 's sake , take care ! "
the maniac bellowed : she parted her shaggy locks from her visage , and gazed wildly at her visitors .
i recognised well that purple face , --those bloated features .
mrs. poole advanced . " keep out of the way , " said mr. rochester , thrusting her aside : " she has no knife now , i suppose , and i 'm on my guard . "
" one never knows what she has , sir : she is so cunning : it is not in mortal discretion to fathom her craft . "
" we had better leave her , " whispered mason .
" go to the devil ! " was his brother-in-law 's recommendation .
" ' ware ! " cried grace .
the three gentlemen retreated simultaneously . mr. rochester flung me behind him : the lunatic sprang and grappled his throat viciously , and laid her teeth to his cheek : they struggled .
she was a big woman , in stature almost equalling her husband , and corpulent besides : she showed virile force in the contest--more than once she almost throttled him , athletic as he was .
he could have settled her with a well-planted blow ; but he would not strike : he would only wrestle .
at last he mastered her arms ; grace poole gave him a cord , and he pinioned them behind her : with more rope , which was at hand , he bound her to a chair .
the operation was performed amidst the fiercest yells and the most convulsive plunges . mr. rochester then turned to the spectators : he looked at them with a smile both acrid and desolate . " that is _ my wife _ , " said he .
" such is the sole conjugal embrace i am ever to know--such are the endearments which are to solace my leisure hours ! and _ this _ is what i wished to have " ( laying his hand on my shoulder ) : " this young girl , who stands so grave and quiet at the mouth of hell , looking collectedly at the gambols of a demon , i wanted her just as a change after that fierce ragout .
wood and briggs , look at the difference ! compare these clear eyes with the red balls yonder--this face with that mask--this form with that bulk ; then judge me , priest of the gospel and man of the law , and remember with what judgment ye judge ye shall be judged !
off with you now . i must shut up my prize . "
we all withdrew . mr. rochester stayed a moment behind us , to give some further order to grace poole . the solicitor addressed me as he descended the stair .
" you , madam , " said he , " are cleared from all blame : your uncle will be glad to hear it--if , indeed , he should be still living--when mr. mason returns to madeira . "
" my uncle !
what of him ? do you know him ? "
" mr. mason does . mr. eyre has been the funchal correspondent of his house for some years .
when your uncle received your letter intimating the contemplated union between yourself and mr. rochester , mr. mason , who was staying at madeira to recruit his health , on his way back to jamaica , happened to be with him .
mr. eyre mentioned the intelligence ; for he knew that my client here was acquainted with a gentleman of the name of rochester . mr. mason , astonished and distressed as you may suppose , revealed the real state of matters .
your uncle , i am sorry to say , is now on a sick bed ; from which , considering the nature of his disease--decline--and the stage it has reached , it is unlikely he will ever rise .
he could not then hasten to england himself , to extricate you from the snare into which you had fallen , but he implored mr. mason to lose no time in taking steps to prevent the false marriage .
he referred him to me for assistance . i used all despatch , and am thankful i was not too late : as you , doubtless , must be also .
were i not morally certain that your uncle will be dead ere you reach madeira , i would advise you to accompany mr. mason back ; but as it is , i think you had better remain in england till you can hear further , either from or of mr. eyre .
have we anything else to stay for ? " he inquired of mr. mason .
" no , no--let us be gone , " was the anxious reply ; and without waiting to take leave of mr. rochester , they made their exit at the hall door .
the clergyman stayed to exchange a few sentences , either of admonition or reproof , with his haughty parishioner ; this duty done , he too departed .
i heard him go as i stood at the half-open door of my own room , to which i had now withdrawn .
the house cleared , i shut myself in , fastened the bolt that none might intrude , and proceeded--not to weep , not to mourn , i was yet too calm for that , but--mechanically to take off the wedding dress , and replace it by the stuff gown i had worn yesterday , as i thought , for the last time .
i then sat down : i felt weak and tired . i leaned my arms on a table , and my head dropped on them . and now i thought : till now i had only heard , seen , moved--followed up and down where i was led or dragged--watched event rush on event , disclosure open beyond disclosure : but _ now _ , _ i thought _ .
the morning had been a quiet morning enough--all except the brief scene with the lunatic : the transaction in the church had not been noisy ; there was no explosion of passion , no loud altercation , no dispute , no defiance or challenge , no tears , no sobs : a few words had been spoken , a calmly pronounced objection to the marriage made ; some stern , short questions put by mr. rochester ; answers , explanations given , evidence adduced ; an open admission of the truth had been uttered by my master ; then the living proof had been seen ; the intruders were gone , and all was over .
i was in my own room as usual--just myself , without obvious change : nothing had smitten me , or scathed me , or maimed me . and yet where was the jane eyre of yesterday ? --where was her life ? --where were her prospects ?
jane eyre , who had been an ardent , expectant woman--almost a bride , was a cold , solitary girl again : her life was pale ; her prospects were desolate .
a christmas frost had come at midsummer ; a white december storm had whirled over june ; ice glazed the ripe apples , drifts crushed the blowing roses ; on hayfield and cornfield lay a frozen shroud : lanes which last night blushed full of flowers , to-day were pathless with untrodden snow ; and the woods , which twelve hours since waved leafy and flagrant as groves between the tropics , now spread , waste , wild , and white as pine-forests in wintry norway .
my hopes were all dead--struck with a subtle doom , such as , in one night , fell on all the first-born in the land of egypt .
i looked on my cherished wishes , yesterday so blooming and glowing ; they lay stark , chill , livid corpses that could never revive .
i looked at my love : that feeling which was my master 's--which he had created ; it shivered in my heart , like a suffering child in a cold cradle ; sickness and anguish had seized it ; it could not seek mr. rochester 's arms--it could not derive warmth from his breast .
oh , never more could it turn to him ; for faith was blighted--confidence destroyed !
mr. rochester was not to me what he had been ; for he was not what i had thought him .
i would not ascribe vice to him ; i would not say he had betrayed me ; but the attribute of stainless truth was gone from his idea , and from his presence i must go : _ that _ i perceived well .
when--how--whither , i could not yet discern ; but he himself , i doubted not , would hurry me from thornfield .
real affection , it seemed , he could not have for me ; it had been only fitful passion : that was balked ; he would want me no more . i should fear even to cross his path now : my view must be hateful to him .
oh , how blind had been my eyes ! how weak my conduct !
my eyes were covered and closed : eddying darkness seemed to swim round me , and reflection came in as black and confused a flow .
self-abandoned , relaxed , and effortless , i seemed to have laid me down in the dried-up bed of a great river ; i heard a flood loosened in remote mountains , and felt the torrent come : to rise i had no will , to flee i had no strength . i lay faint , longing to be dead .
one idea only still throbbed life-like within me--a remembrance of god : it begot an unuttered prayer : these words went wandering up and down in my rayless mind , as something that should be whispered , but no energy was found to express them--
" be not far from me , for trouble is near : there is none to help . "
it was near : and as i had lifted no petition to heaven to avert it--as i had neither joined my hands , nor bent my knees , nor moved my lips--it came : in full heavy swing the torrent poured over me .
the whole consciousness of my life lorn , my love lost , my hope quenched , my faith death-struck , swayed full and mighty above me in one sullen mass .
that bitter hour cannot be described : in truth , " the waters came into my soul ; i sank in deep mire : i felt no standing ; i came into deep waters ; the floods overflowed me . "
chapter xxvii
some time in the afternoon i raised my head , and looking round and seeing the western sun gilding the sign of its decline on the wall , i asked , " what am i to do ? "
but the answer my mind gave-- " leave thornfield at once " --was so prompt , so dread , that i stopped my ears . i said i could not bear such words now .
" that i am not edward rochester 's bride is the least part of my woe , " i alleged : " that i have wakened out of most glorious dreams , and found them all void and vain , is a horror i could bear and master ; but that i must leave him decidedly , instantly , entirely , is intolerable . i cannot do it . "
but , then , a voice within me averred that i could do it and foretold that i should do it .
i wrestled with my own resolution : i wanted to be weak that i might avoid the awful passage of further suffering i saw laid out for me ; and conscience , turned tyrant , held passion by the throat , told her tauntingly , she had yet but dipped her dainty foot in the slough , and swore that with that arm of iron he would thrust her down to unsounded depths of agony .
" let me be torn away , " then i cried . " let another help me ! "
" no ; you shall tear yourself away , none shall help you : you shall yourself pluck out your right eye ; yourself cut off your right hand : your heart shall be the victim , and you the priest to transfix it . "
i rose up suddenly , terror-struck at the solitude which so ruthless a judge haunted , --at the silence which so awful a voice filled . my head swam as i stood erect .
i perceived that i was sickening from excitement and inanition ; neither meat nor drink had passed my lips that day , for i had taken no breakfast .
and , with a strange pang , i now reflected that , long as i had been shut up here , no message had been sent to ask how i was , or to invite me to come down : not even little adele had tapped at the door ; not even mrs. fairfax had sought me .
" friends always forget those whom fortune forsakes , " i murmured , as i undrew the bolt and passed out .
i stumbled over an obstacle : my head was still dizzy , my sight was dim , and my limbs were feeble . i could not soon recover myself . i fell , but not on to the ground : an outstretched arm caught me . i looked up--i was supported by mr. rochester , who sat in a chair across my chamber threshold . " you come out at last , " he said .
" well , i have been waiting for you long , and listening : yet not one movement have i heard , nor one sob : five minutes more of that death-like hush , and i should have forced the lock like a burglar .
so you shun me ? --you shut yourself up and grieve alone ! i would rather you had come and upbraided me with vehemence . you are passionate . i expected a scene of some kind .
i was prepared for the hot rain of tears ; only i wanted them to be shed on my breast : now a senseless floor has received them , or your drenched handkerchief .
but i err : you have not wept at all ! i see a white cheek and a faded eye , but no trace of tears .
i suppose , then , your heart has been weeping blood ? "
" well , jane ! not a word of reproach ?
nothing bitter--nothing poignant ?
nothing to cut a feeling or sting a passion ?
you sit quietly where i have placed you , and regard me with a weary , passive look . "
" jane , i never meant to wound you thus . if the man who had but one little ewe lamb that was dear to him as a daughter , that ate of his bread and drank of his cup , and lay in his bosom , had by some mistake slaughtered it at the shambles , he would not have rued his bloody blunder more than i now rue mine .
will you ever forgive me ? "
reader , i forgave him at the moment and on the spot .
there was such deep remorse in his eye , such true pity in his tone , such manly energy in his manner ; and besides , there was such unchanged love in his whole look and mien--i forgave him all : yet not in words , not outwardly ; only at my heart 's core .
" you know i am a scoundrel , jane ? " ere long he inquired wistfully--wondering , i suppose , at my continued silence and tameness , the result rather of weakness than of will .
" yes , sir . "
" then tell me so roundly and sharply--don 't spare me . "
" i cannot : i am tired and sick . i want some water . "
he heaved a sort of shuddering sigh , and taking me in his arms , carried me downstairs .
at first i did not know to what room he had borne me ; all was cloudy to my glazed sight : presently i felt the reviving warmth of a fire ; for , summer as it was , i had become icy cold in my chamber .
he put wine to my lips ; i tasted it and revived ; then i ate something he offered me , and was soon myself .
i was in the library--sitting in his chair--he was quite near .
" if i could go out of life now , without too sharp a pang , it would be well for me , " i thought ; " then i should not have to make the effort of cracking my heart-strings in rending them from among mr. rochester 's .
i must leave him , it appears . i do not want to leave him--i cannot leave him . " " how are you now , jane ? "
" much better , sir ; i shall be well soon . "
" taste the wine again , jane . "
i obeyed him ; then he put the glass on the table , stood before me , and looked at me attentively .
suddenly he turned away , with an inarticulate exclamation , full of passionate emotion of some kind ; he walked fast through the room and came back ; he stooped towards me as if to kiss me ; but i remembered caresses were now forbidden . i turned my face away and put his aside .
" what ! --how is this ? " he exclaimed hastily . " oh , i know ! you won 't kiss the husband of bertha mason ? you consider my arms filled and my embraces appropriated ? "
" at any rate , there is neither room nor claim for me , sir . "
" why , jane ?
i will spare you the trouble of much talking ; i will answer for you--because i have a wife already , you would reply.--i guess rightly ? "
" yes . "
" if you think so , you must have a strange opinion of me ; you must regard me as a plotting profligate--a base and low rake who has been simulating disinterested love in order to draw you into a snare deliberately laid , and strip you of honour and rob you of self-respect .
what do you say to that ?
i see you can say nothing in the first place , you are faint still , and have enough to do to draw your breath ; in the second place , you cannot yet accustom yourself to accuse and revile me , and besides , the flood-gates of tears are opened , and they would rush out if you spoke much ; and you have no desire to expostulate , to upbraid , to make a scene : you are thinking how _ to act _ -- _ talking _ you consider is of no use . i know you--i am on my guard . "
" sir , i do not wish to act against you , " i said ; and my unsteady voice warned me to curtail my sentence .
" not in your sense of the word , but in mine you are scheming to destroy me .
you have as good as said that i am a married man--as a married man you will shun me , keep out of my way : just now you have refused to kiss me .
you intend to make yourself a complete stranger to me : to live under this roof only as adele 's governess ; if ever i say a friendly word to you , if ever a friendly feeling inclines you again to me , you will say , -- ' that man had nearly made me his mistress : i must be ice and rock to him ; ' and ice and rock you will accordingly become . "
i cleared and steadied my voice to reply : " all is changed about me , sir ; i must change too--there is no doubt of that ; and to avoid fluctuations of feeling , and continual combats with recollections and associations , there is only one way--adele must have a new governess , sir . "
" oh , adele will go to school--i have settled that already ; nor do i mean to torment you with the hideous associations and recollections of thornfield hall--this accursed place--this tent of achan--this insolent vault , offering the ghastliness of living death to the light of the open sky--this narrow stone hell , with its one real fiend , worse than a legion of such as we imagine .
jane , you shall not stay here , nor will i. i was wrong ever to bring you to thornfield hall , knowing as i did how it was haunted .
i charged them to conceal from you , before i ever saw you , all knowledge of the curse of the place ; merely because i feared adele never would have a governess to stay if she knew with what inmate she was housed , and my plans would not permit me to remove the maniac elsewhere--though i possess an old house , ferndean manor , even more retired and hidden than this , where i could have lodged her safely enough , had not a scruple about the unhealthiness of the situation , in the heart of a wood , made my conscience recoil from the arrangement .
probably those damp walls would soon have eased me of her charge : but to each villain his own vice ; and mine is not a tendency to indirect assassination , even of what i most hate .
" concealing the mad-woman 's neighbourhood from you , however , was something like covering a child with a cloak and laying it down near a upas-tree : that demon 's vicinage is poisoned , and always was .
but i 'll shut up thornfield hall : i 'll nail up the front door and board the lower windows : i 'll give mrs. poole two hundred a year to live here with _ my wife _ , as you term that fearful hag : grace will do much for money , and she shall have her son , the keeper at grimsby retreat , to bear her company and be at hand to give her aid in the paroxysms , when _ my wife _ is prompted by her familiar to burn people in their beds at night , to stab them , to bite their flesh from their bones , and so on-- "
" sir , " i interrupted him , " you are inexorable for that unfortunate lady : you speak of her with hate--with vindictive antipathy . it is cruel--she cannot help being mad . "
" jane , my little darling ( so i will call you , for so you are ) , you don 't know what you are talking about ; you misjudge me again : it is not because she is mad i hate her .
if you were mad , do you think i should hate you ? "
" i do indeed , sir . "
" then you are mistaken , and you know nothing about me , and nothing about the sort of love of which i am capable . every atom of your flesh is as dear to me as my own : in pain and sickness it would still be dear .
your mind is my treasure , and if it were broken , it would be my treasure still : if you raved , my arms should confine you , and not a strait waistcoat--your grasp , even in fury , would have a charm for me : if you flew at me as wildly as that woman did this morning , i should receive you in an embrace , at least as fond as it would be restrictive .
i should not shrink from you with disgust as i did from her : in your quiet moments you should have no watcher and no nurse but me ; and i could hang over you with untiring tenderness , though you gave me no smile in return ; and never weary of gazing into your eyes , though they had no longer a ray of recognition for me .
--but why do i follow that train of ideas ?
i was talking of removing you from thornfield . all , you know , is prepared for prompt departure : to-morrow you shall go .
i only ask you to endure one more night under this roof , jane ; and then , farewell to its miseries and terrors for ever ! i have a place to repair to , which will be a secure sanctuary from hateful reminiscences , from unwelcome intrusion--even from falsehood and slander . "
" and take adele with you , sir , " i interrupted ; " she will be a companion for you . "
" what do you mean , jane ?
i told you i would send adele to school ; and what do i want with a child for a companion , and not my own child , --a french dancer 's bastard ? why do you importune me about her !
i say , why do you assign adele to me for a companion ? "
" you spoke of a retirement , sir ; and retirement and solitude are dull : too dull for you . "
" solitude ! solitude ! " he reiterated with irritation .
" i see i must come to an explanation . i don 't know what sphynx-like expression is forming in your countenance .
you are to share my solitude . do you understand ? "
i shook my head : it required a degree of courage , excited as he was becoming , even to risk that mute sign of dissent .
he had been walking fast about the room , and he stopped , as if suddenly rooted to one spot . he looked at me long and hard : i turned my eyes from him , fixed them on the fire , and tried to assume and maintain a quiet , collected aspect .
" now for the hitch in jane 's character , " he said at last , speaking more calmly than from his look i had expected him to speak . " the reel of silk has run smoothly enough so far ; but i always knew there would come a knot and a puzzle : here it is . now for vexation , and exasperation , and endless trouble !
by god ! i long to exert a fraction of samson 's strength , and break the entanglement like tow ! "
he recommenced his walk , but soon again stopped , and this time just before me .
" jane ! will you hear reason ? " ( he stooped and approached his lips to my ear ) ; " because , if you won 't , i 'll try violence . "
his voice was hoarse ; his look that of a man who is just about to burst an insufferable bond and plunge headlong into wild license .
i saw that in another moment , and with one impetus of frenzy more , i should be able to do nothing with him . the present--the passing second of time--was all i had in which to control and restrain him--a movement of repulsion , flight , fear would have sealed my doom , --and his . but i was not afraid : not in the least .
i felt an inward power ; a sense of influence , which supported me . the crisis was perilous ; but not without its charm : such as the indian , perhaps , feels when he slips over the rapid in his canoe .
i took hold of his clenched hand , loosened the contorted fingers , and said to him , soothingly--
" sit down ; i 'll talk to you as long as you like , and hear all you have to say , whether reasonable or unreasonable . "
he sat down : but he did not get leave to speak directly .
i had been struggling with tears for some time : i had taken great pains to repress them , because i knew he would not like to see me weep . now , however , i considered it well to let them flow as freely and as long as they liked . if the flood annoyed him , so much the better .
so i gave way and cried heartily .
soon i heard him earnestly entreating me to be composed . i said i could not while he was in such a passion .
" but i am not angry , jane : i only love you too well ; and you had steeled your little pale face with such a resolute , frozen look , i could not endure it .
hush , now , and wipe your eyes . "
his softened voice announced that he was subdued ; so i , in my turn , became calm .
now he made an effort to rest his head on my shoulder , but i would not permit it .
then he would draw me to him : no .
" jane ! jane ! " he said , in such an accent of bitter sadness it thrilled along every nerve i had ; " you don 't love me , then ?
it was only my station , and the rank of my wife , that you valued ? now that you think me disqualified to become your husband , you recoil from my touch as if i were some toad or ape . "
these words cut me : yet what could i do or i say ?
i ought probably to have done or said nothing ; but i was so tortured by a sense of remorse at thus hurting his feelings , i could not control the wish to drop balm where i had wounded .
" i _ do _ love you , " i said , " more than ever : but i must not show or indulge the feeling : and this is the last time i must express it . "
" the last time , jane !
what ! do you think you can live with me , and see me daily , and yet , if you still love me , be always cold and distant ? "
" no , sir ; that i am certain i could not ; and therefore i see there is but one way : but you will be furious if i mention it . "
" oh , mention it ! if i storm , you have the art of weeping . "
" mr. rochester , i must leave you . "
" for how long , jane ?
for a few minutes , while you smooth your hair--which is somewhat dishevelled ; and bathe your face--which looks feverish ? "
" i must leave adele and thornfield . i must part with you for my whole life : i must begin a new existence among strange faces and strange scenes . "
" of course : i told you you should .
i pass over the madness about parting from me . you mean you must become a part of me .
as to the new existence , it is all right : you shall yet be my wife : i am not married . you shall be mrs. rochester--both virtually and nominally .
i shall keep only to you so long as you and i live . you shall go to a place i have in the south of france : a whitewashed villa on the shores of the mediterranean . there you shall live a happy , and guarded , and most innocent life .
never fear that i wish to lure you into error--to make you my mistress .
why did you shake your head ?
jane , you must be reasonable , or in truth i shall again become frantic . "
his voice and hand quivered : his large nostrils dilated ; his eye blazed : still i dared to speak .
" sir , your wife is living : that is a fact acknowledged this morning by yourself . if i lived with you as you desire , i should then be your mistress : to say otherwise is sophistical--is false . "
" jane , i am not a gentle-tempered man--you forget that : i am not long- enduring ; i am not cool and dispassionate . out of pity to me and yourself , put your finger on my pulse , feel how it throbs , and--beware ! "
he bared his wrist , and offered it to me : the blood was forsaking his cheek and lips , they were growing livid ; i was distressed on all hands .
to agitate him thus deeply , by a resistance he so abhorred , was cruel : to yield was out of the question .
i did what human beings do instinctively when they are driven to utter extremity--looked for aid to one higher than man : the words " god help me ! " burst involuntarily from my lips .
" i am a fool ! " cried mr. rochester suddenly . " i keep telling her i am not married , and do not explain to her why . i forget she knows nothing of the character of that woman , or of the circumstances attending my infernal union with her . oh , i am certain jane will agree with me in opinion , when she knows all that i know !
just put your hand in mine , janet--that i may have the evidence of touch as well as sight , to prove you are near me--and i will in a few words show you the real state of the case . can you listen to me ? "
" yes , sir ; for hours if you will . "
" i ask only minutes . jane , did you ever hear or know that i was not the eldest son of my house : that i had once a brother older than i ? "
" i remember mrs. fairfax told me so once . "
" and did you ever hear that my father was an avaricious , grasping man ? "
" i have understood something to that effect . "
" well , jane , being so , it was his resolution to keep the property together ; he could not bear the idea of dividing his estate and leaving me a fair portion : all , he resolved , should go to my brother , rowland .
yet as little could he endure that a son of his should be a poor man . i must be provided for by a wealthy marriage .
mr. mason , a west india planter and merchant , was his old acquaintance .
he was certain his possessions were real and vast : he made inquiries . mr. mason , he found , had a son and daughter ; and he learned from him that he could and would give the latter a fortune of thirty thousand pounds : that sufficed .
when i left college , i was sent out to jamaica , to espouse a bride already courted for me .
my father said nothing about her money ; but he told me miss mason was the boast of spanish town for her beauty : and this was no lie .
i found her a fine woman , in the style of blanche ingram : tall , dark , and majestic .
her family wished to secure me because i was of a good race ; and so did she . they showed her to me in parties , splendidly dressed . i seldom saw her alone , and had very little private conversation with her .
she flattered me , and lavishly displayed for my pleasure her charms and accomplishments .
all the men in her circle seemed to admire her and envy me . i was dazzled , stimulated : my senses were excited ; and being ignorant , raw , and inexperienced , i thought i loved her .
there is no folly so besotted that the idiotic rivalries of society , the prurience , the rashness , the blindness of youth , will not hurry a man to its commission . her relatives encouraged me ; competitors piqued me ; she allured me : a marriage was achieved almost before i knew where i was .
oh , i have no respect for myself when i think of that act ! --an agony of inward contempt masters me .
i never loved , i never esteemed , i did not even know her . i was not sure of the existence of one virtue in her nature : i had marked neither modesty , nor benevolence , nor candour , nor refinement in her mind or manners--and , i married her : --gross , grovelling , mole-eyed blockhead that i was ! with less sin i might have--but let me remember to whom i am speaking . "
" my bride 's mother i had never seen : i understood she was dead .
the honeymoon over , i learned my mistake ; she was only mad , and shut up in a lunatic asylum .
there was a younger brother , too--a complete dumb idiot .
the elder one , whom you have seen ( and whom i cannot hate , whilst i abhor all his kindred , because he has some grains of affection in his feeble mind , shown in the continued interest he takes in his wretched sister , and also in a dog-like attachment he once bore me ) , will probably be in the same state one day .
my father and my brother rowland knew all this ; but they thought only of the thirty thousand pounds , and joined in the plot against me . "
" these were vile discoveries ; but except for the treachery of concealment , i should have made them no subject of reproach to my wife , even when i found her nature wholly alien to mine , her tastes obnoxious to me , her cast of mind common , low , narrow , and singularly incapable of being led to anything higher , expanded to anything larger--
when i found that i could not pass a single evening , nor even a single hour of the day with her in comfort ; that kindly conversation could not be sustained between us , because whatever topic i started , immediately received from her a turn at once coarse and trite , perverse and imbecile--when i perceived that i should never have a quiet or settled household , because no servant would bear the continued outbreaks of her violent and unreasonable temper , or the vexations of her absurd , contradictory , exacting orders--even then i restrained myself : i eschewed upbraiding , i curtailed remonstrance ; i tried to devour my repentance and disgust in secret ; i repressed the deep antipathy i felt .
" jane , i will not trouble you with abominable details : some strong words shall express what i have to say .
i lived with that woman upstairs four years , and before that time she had tried me indeed : her character ripened and developed with frightful rapidity ; her vices sprang up fast and rank : they were so strong , only cruelty could check them , and i would not use cruelty .
what a pigmy intellect she had , and what giant propensities ! how fearful were the curses those propensities entailed on me !
bertha mason , the true daughter of an infamous mother , dragged me through all the hideous and degrading agonies which must attend a man bound to a wife at once intemperate and unchaste .
" my brother in the interval was dead , and at the end of the four years my father died too .
i was rich enough now--yet poor to hideous indigence : a nature the most gross , impure , depraved i ever saw , was associated with mine , and called by the law and by society a part of me .
and i could not rid myself of it by any legal proceedings : for the doctors now discovered that _ my wife _ was mad--her excesses had prematurely developed the germs of insanity .
jane , you don 't like my narrative ; you look almost sick--shall i defer the rest to another day ? "
" no , sir , finish it now ; i pity you--i do earnestly pity you . "
" pity , jane , from some people is a noxious and insulting sort of tribute , which one is justified in hurling back in the teeth of those who offer it ; but that is the sort of pity native to callous , selfish hearts ; it is a hybrid , egotistical pain at hearing of woes , crossed with ignorant contempt for those who have endured them .
but that is not your pity , jane ; it is not the feeling of which your whole face is full at this moment--with which your eyes are now almost overflowing--with which your heart is heaving--with which your hand is trembling in mine .
your pity , my darling , is the suffering mother of love : its anguish is the very natal pang of the divine passion .
i accept it , jane ; let the daughter have free advent--my arms wait to receive her . "
" now , sir , proceed ; what did you do when you found she was mad ? "
" jane , i approached the verge of despair ; a remnant of self-respect was all that intervened between me and the gulf .
in the eyes of the world , i was doubtless covered with grimy dishonour ; but i resolved to be clean in my own sight--and to the last i repudiated the contamination of her crimes , and wrenched myself from connection with her mental defects .
still , society associated my name and person with hers ; i yet saw her and heard her daily : something of her breath ( faugh ! ) mixed with the air i breathed ; and besides , i remembered i had once been her husband--that recollection was then , and is now , inexpressibly odious to me ; moreover , i knew that while she lived i could never be the husband of another and better wife ; and , though five years my senior ( her family and her father had lied to me even in the particular of her age ) , she was likely to live as long as i , being as robust in frame as she was infirm in mind .
thus , at the age of twenty-six , i was hopeless .
" one night i had been awakened by her yells-- ( since the medical men had pronounced her mad , she had , of course , been shut up ) --it was a fiery west indian night ; one of the description that frequently precede the hurricanes of those climates .
being unable to sleep in bed , i got up and opened the window . the air was like sulphur-steams--i could find no refreshment anywhere .
mosquitoes came buzzing in and hummed sullenly round the room ; the sea , which i could hear from thence , rumbled dull like an earthquake--black clouds were casting up over it ; the moon was setting in the waves , broad and red , like a hot cannon-ball--she threw her last bloody glance over a world quivering with the ferment of tempest .
i was physically influenced by the atmosphere and scene , and my ears were filled with the curses the maniac still shrieked out ; wherein she momentarily mingled my name with such a tone of demon-hate , with such language ! --no professed harlot ever had a fouler vocabulary than she : though two rooms off , i heard every word--the thin partitions of the west india house opposing but slight obstruction to her wolfish cries .
" ' this life , ' said i at last , ' is hell : this is the air--those are the sounds of the bottomless pit !
i have a right to deliver myself from it if i can . the sufferings of this mortal state will leave me with the heavy flesh that now cumbers my soul .
of the fanatic 's burning eternity i have no fear : there is not a future state worse than this present one--let me break away , and go home to god ! '
" i said this whilst i knelt down at , and unlocked a trunk which contained a brace of loaded pistols : i mean to shoot myself .
i only entertained the intention for a moment ; for , not being insane , the crisis of exquisite and unalloyed despair , which had originated the wish and design of self-destruction , was past in a second .
" a wind fresh from europe blew over the ocean and rushed through the open casement : the storm broke , streamed , thundered , blazed , and the air grew pure . i then framed and fixed a resolution .
while i walked under the dripping orange-trees of my wet garden , and amongst its drenched pomegranates and pine-apples , and while the refulgent dawn of the tropics kindled round me--i reasoned thus , jane--and now listen ; for it was true wisdom that consoled me in that hour , and showed me the right path to follow .
" the sweet wind from europe was still whispering in the refreshed leaves , and the atlantic was thundering in glorious liberty ; my heart , dried up and scorched for a long time , swelled to the tone , and filled with living blood--my being longed for renewal--my soul thirsted for a pure draught . i saw hope revive--and felt regeneration possible .
from a flowery arch at the bottom of my garden i gazed over the sea--bluer than the sky : the old world was beyond ; clear prospects opened thus : --
" ' go , ' said hope , ' and live again in europe : there it is not known what a sullied name you bear , nor what a filthy burden is bound to you . you may take the maniac with you to england ; confine her with due attendance and precautions at thornfield : then travel yourself to what clime you will , and form what new tie you like .
that woman , who has so abused your long- suffering , so sullied your name , so outraged your honour , so blighted your youth , is not your wife , nor are you her husband .
see that she is cared for as her condition demands , and you have done all that god and humanity require of you .
let her identity , her connection with yourself , be buried in oblivion : you are bound to impart them to no living being . place her in safety and comfort : shelter her degradation with secrecy , and leave her . '
" i acted precisely on this suggestion . my father and brother had not made my marriage known to their acquaintance ; because , in the very first letter i wrote to apprise them of the union--having already begun to experience extreme disgust of its consequences , and , from the family character and constitution , seeing a hideous future opening to me--i added an urgent charge to keep it secret : and very soon the infamous conduct of the wife my father had selected for me was such as to make him blush to own her as his daughter-in-law .
far from desiring to publish the connection , he became as anxious to conceal it as myself .
" to england , then , i conveyed her ; a fearful voyage i had with such a monster in the vessel .
glad was i when i at last got her to thornfield , and saw her safely lodged in that third-storey room , of whose secret inner cabinet she has now for ten years made a wild beast 's den--a goblin 's cell .
i had some trouble in finding an attendant for her , as it was necessary to select one on whose fidelity dependence could be placed ; for her ravings would inevitably betray my secret : besides , she had lucid intervals of days--sometimes weeks--which she filled up with abuse of me .
at last i hired grace poole from the grimbsy retreat .
she and the surgeon , carter ( who dressed mason 's wounds that night he was stabbed and worried ) , are the only two i have ever admitted to my confidence . mrs. fairfax may indeed have suspected something , but she could have gained no precise knowledge as to facts .
grace has , on the whole , proved a good keeper ; though , owing partly to a fault of her own , of which it appears nothing can cure her , and which is incident to her harassing profession , her vigilance has been more than once lulled and baffled .
the lunatic is both cunning and malignant ; she has never failed to take advantage of her guardian 's temporary lapses ; once to secrete the knife with which she stabbed her brother , and twice to possess herself of the key of her cell , and issue therefrom in the night-time . on the first of these occasions , she perpetrated the attempt to burn me in my bed ; on the second , she paid that ghastly visit to you .
i thank providence , who watched over you , that she then spent her fury on your wedding apparel , which perhaps brought back vague reminiscences of her own bridal days : but on what might have happened , i cannot endure to reflect .
when i think of the thing which flew at my throat this morning , hanging its black and scarlet visage over the nest of my dove , my blood curdles-- "
" and what , sir , " i asked , while he paused , " did you do when you had settled her here ?
where did you go ? "
" what did i do , jane ? i transformed myself into a will-o ' -the-wisp .
where did i go ? i pursued wanderings as wild as those of the march-spirit .
i sought the continent , and went devious through all its lands . my fixed desire was to seek and find a good and intelligent woman , whom i could love : a contrast to the fury i left at thornfield-- "
" but you could not marry , sir . "
" i had determined and was convinced that i could and ought .
it was not my original intention to deceive , as i have deceived you . i meant to tell my tale plainly , and make my proposals openly : and it appeared to me so absolutely rational that i should be considered free to love and be loved , i never doubted some woman might be found willing and able to understand my case and accept me , in spite of the curse with which i was burdened . "
" well , sir ? "
" when you are inquisitive , jane , you always make me smile . you open your eyes like an eager bird , and make every now and then a restless movement , as if answers in speech did not flow fast enough for you , and you wanted to read the tablet of one 's heart .
but before i go on , tell me what you mean by your ' well , sir ? '
it is a small phrase very frequent with you ; and which many a time has drawn me on and on through interminable talk : i don 't very well know why . "
" i mean , --what next ? how did you proceed ?
what came of such an event ? "
" precisely ! and what do you wish to know now ? "
" whether you found any one you liked : whether you asked her to marry you ; and what she said . "
" i can tell you whether i found any one i liked , and whether i asked her to marry me : but what she said is yet to be recorded in the book of fate .
for ten long years i roved about , living first in one capital , then another : sometimes in st. petersburg ; oftener in paris ; occasionally in rome , naples , and florence .
provided with plenty of money and the passport of an old name , i could choose my own society : no circles were closed against me . i sought my ideal of a woman amongst english ladies , french countesses , italian signoras , and german grafinnen . i could not find her .
sometimes , for a fleeting moment , i thought i caught a glance , heard a tone , beheld a form , which announced the realisation of my dream : but i was presently undeserved .
you are not to suppose that i desired perfection , either of mind or person . i longed only for what suited me--for the antipodes of the creole : and i longed vainly .
amongst them all i found not one whom , had i been ever so free , i--warned as i was of the risks , the horrors , the loathings of incongruous unions--would have asked to marry me . disappointment made me reckless .
that was my indian messalina 's attribute : rooted disgust at it and her restrained me much , even in pleasure .
any enjoyment that bordered on riot seemed to approach me to her and her vices , and i eschewed it .
" yet i could not live alone ; so i tried the companionship of mistresses .
the first i chose was celine varens--another of those steps which make a man spurn himself when he recalls them . you already know what she was , and how my liaison with her terminated .
she had two successors : an italian , giacinta , and a german , clara ; both considered singularly handsome .
what was their beauty to me in a few weeks ?
giacinta was unprincipled and violent : i tired of her in three months .
clara was honest and quiet ; but heavy , mindless , and unimpressible : not one whit to my taste . i was glad to give her a sufficient sum to set her up in a good line of business , and so get decently rid of her .
but , jane , i see by your face you are not forming a very favourable opinion of me just now . you think me an unfeeling , loose-principled rake : don 't you ? "
" i don 't like you so well as i have done sometimes , indeed , sir . did it not seem to you in the least wrong to live in that way , first with one mistress and then another ? you talk of it as a mere matter of course . "
" it was with me ; and i did not like it . it was a grovelling fashion of existence : i should never like to return to it .
hiring a mistress is the next worse thing to buying a slave : both are often by nature , and always by position , inferior : and to live familiarly with inferiors is degrading .
i now hate the recollection of the time i passed with celine , giacinta , and clara . "
i felt the truth of these words ; and i drew from them the certain inference , that if i were so far to forget myself and all the teaching that had ever been instilled into me , as--under any pretext--with any justification--through any temptation--to become the successor of these poor girls , he would one day regard me with the same feeling which now in his mind desecrated their memory . i did not give utterance to this conviction : it was enough to feel it .
i impressed it on my heart , that it might remain there to serve me as aid in the time of trial .
" now , jane , why don 't you say ' well , sir ? ' i have not done .
you are looking grave . you disapprove of me still , i see . but let me come to the point .
last january , rid of all mistresses--in a harsh , bitter frame of mind , the result of a useless , roving , lonely life--corroded with disappointment , sourly disposed against all men , and especially against all womankind ( for i began to regard the notion of an intellectual , faithful , loving woman as a mere dream ) , recalled by business , i came back to england .
" on a frosty winter afternoon , i rode in sight of thornfield hall . abhorred spot ! i expected no peace--no pleasure there .
on a stile in hay lane i saw a quiet little figure sitting by itself . i passed it as negligently as i did the pollard willow opposite to it : i had no presentiment of what it would be to me ; no inward warning that the arbitress of my life--my genius for good or evil--waited there in humble guise . i did not know it , even when , on the occasion of mesrour 's accident , it came up and gravely offered me help .
childish and slender creature ! it seemed as if a linnet had hopped to my foot and proposed to bear me on its tiny wing .
i was surly ; but the thing would not go : it stood by me with strange perseverance , and looked and spoke with a sort of authority . i must be aided , and by that hand : and aided i was .
" when once i had pressed the frail shoulder , something new--a fresh sap and sense--stole into my frame .
it was well i had learnt that this elf must return to me--that it belonged to my house down below--or i could not have felt it pass away from under my hand , and seen it vanish behind the dim hedge , without singular regret .
i heard you come home that night , jane , though probably you were not aware that i thought of you or watched for you .
the next day i observed you--myself unseen--for half-an- hour , while you played with adele in the gallery .
it was a snowy day , i recollect , and you could not go out of doors . i was in my room ; the door was ajar : i could both listen and watch .
adele claimed your outward attention for a while ; yet i fancied your thoughts were elsewhere : but you were very patient with her , my little jane ; you talked to her and amused her a long time .
when at last she left you , you lapsed at once into deep reverie : you betook yourself slowly to pace the gallery .
now and then , in passing a casement , you glanced out at the thick-falling snow ; you listened to the sobbing wind , and again you paced gently on and dreamed .
i think those day visions were not dark : there was a pleasurable illumination in your eye occasionally , a soft excitement in your aspect , which told of no bitter , bilious , hypochondriac brooding : your look revealed rather the sweet musings of youth when its spirit follows on willing wings the flight of hope up and on to an ideal heaven .
the voice of mrs. fairfax , speaking to a servant in the hall , wakened you : and how curiously you smiled to and at yourself , janet !
there was much sense in your smile : it was very shrewd , and seemed to make light of your own abstraction . it seemed to say-- ' my fine visions are all very well , but i must not forget they are absolutely unreal . i have a rosy sky and a green flowery eden in my brain ; but without , i am perfectly aware , lies at my feet a rough tract to travel , and around me gather black tempests to encounter . '
you ran downstairs and demanded of mrs. fairfax some occupation : the weekly house accounts to make up , or something of that sort , i think it was . i was vexed with you for getting out of my sight .
" impatiently i waited for evening , when i might summon you to my presence . an unusual--to me--a perfectly new character i suspected was yours : i desired to search it deeper and know it better .
you entered the room with a look and air at once shy and independent : you were quaintly dressed--much as you are now .
i made you talk : ere long i found you full of strange contrasts .
your garb and manner were restricted by rule ; your air was often diffident , and altogether that of one refined by nature , but absolutely unused to society , and a good deal afraid of making herself disadvantageously conspicuous by some solecism or blunder ; yet when addressed , you lifted a keen , a daring , and a glowing eye to your interlocutor 's face : there was penetration and power in each glance you gave ; when plied by close questions , you found ready and round answers .
very soon you seemed to get used to me : i believe you felt the existence of sympathy between you and your grim and cross master , jane ; for it was astonishing to see how quickly a certain pleasant ease tranquillised your manner : snarl as i would , you showed no surprise , fear , annoyance , or displeasure at my moroseness ; you watched me , and now and then smiled at me with a simple yet sagacious grace i cannot describe .
i was at once content and stimulated with what i saw : i liked what i had seen , and wished to see more .
yet , for a long time , i treated you distantly , and sought your company rarely .
i was an intellectual epicure , and wished to prolong the gratification of making this novel and piquant acquaintance : besides , i was for a while troubled with a haunting fear that if i handled the flower freely its bloom would fade--the sweet charm of freshness would leave it . i did not then know that it was no transitory blossom , but rather the radiant resemblance of one , cut in an indestructible gem .
moreover , i wished to see whether you would seek me if i shunned you--but you did not ; you kept in the schoolroom as still as your own desk and easel ; if by chance i met you , you passed me as soon , and with as little token of recognition , as was consistent with respect .
your habitual expression in those days , jane , was a thoughtful look ; not despondent , for you were not sickly ; but not buoyant , for you had little hope , and no actual pleasure .
i wondered what you thought of me , or if you ever thought of me , and resolved to find this out .
" i resumed my notice of you . there was something glad in your glance , and genial in your manner , when you conversed : i saw you had a social heart ; it was the silent schoolroom--it was the tedium of your life--that made you mournful .
i permitted myself the delight of being kind to you ; kindness stirred emotion soon : your face became soft in expression , your tones gentle ; i liked my name pronounced by your lips in a grateful happy accent .
i used to enjoy a chance meeting with you , jane , at this time : there was a curious hesitation in your manner : you glanced at me with a slight trouble--a hovering doubt : you did not know what my caprice might be--whether i was going to play the master and be stern , or the friend and be benignant .
i was now too fond of you often to simulate the first whim ; and , when i stretched my hand out cordially , such bloom and light and bliss rose to your young , wistful features , i had much ado often to avoid straining you then and there to my heart . "
" don 't talk any more of those days , sir , " i interrupted , furtively dashing away some tears from my eyes ; his language was torture to me ; for i knew what i must do--and do soon--and all these reminiscences , and these revelations of his feelings only made my work more difficult .
" no , jane , " he returned : " what necessity is there to dwell on the past , when the present is so much surer--the future so much brighter ? "
i shuddered to hear the infatuated assertion .
" you see now how the case stands--do you not ? " he continued .
" after a youth and manhood passed half in unutterable misery and half in dreary solitude , i have for the first time found what i can truly love--i have found you .
you are my sympathy--my better self--my good angel . i am bound to you with a strong attachment .
i think you good , gifted , lovely : a fervent , a solemn passion is conceived in my heart ; it leans to you , draws you to my centre and spring of life , wraps my existence about you , and , kindling in pure , powerful flame , fuses you and me in one .
" it was because i felt and knew this , that i resolved to marry you . to tell me that i had already a wife is empty mockery : you know now that i had but a hideous demon .
i was wrong to attempt to deceive you ; but i feared a stubbornness that exists in your character . i feared early instilled prejudice : i wanted to have you safe before hazarding confidences .
this was cowardly : i should have appealed to your nobleness and magnanimity at first , as i do now--opened to you plainly my life of agony--described to you my hunger and thirst after a higher and worthier existence--shown to you , not my _ resolution _ ( that word is weak ) , but my resistless _ bent _ to love faithfully and well , where i am faithfully and well loved in return .
then i should have asked you to accept my pledge of fidelity and to give me yours . jane--give it me now . "
a pause .
" why are you silent , jane ? "
i was experiencing an ordeal : a hand of fiery iron grasped my vitals .
terrible moment : full of struggle , blackness , burning !
not a human being that ever lived could wish to be loved better than i was loved ; and him who thus loved me i absolutely worshipped : and i must renounce love and idol . one drear word comprised my intolerable duty-- " depart ! "
" jane , you understand what i want of you ? just this promise-- ' i will be yours , mr. rochester . ' "
" mr. rochester , i will _ not _ be yours . "
another long silence .
" jane ! " recommenced he , with a gentleness that broke me down with grief , and turned me stone-cold with ominous terror--for this still voice was the pant of a lion rising-- " jane , do you mean to go one way in the world , and to let me go another ? "
" i do . "
" jane " ( bending towards and embracing me ) , " do you mean it now ? "
" i do . "
" and now ? " softly kissing my forehead and cheek .
" i do , " extricating myself from restraint rapidly and completely .
" oh , jane , this is bitter ! this--this is wicked .
it would not be wicked to love me . "
" it would to obey you . "
a wild look raised his brows--crossed his features : he rose ; but he forebore yet .
i laid my hand on the back of a chair for support : i shook , i feared--but i resolved .
" one instant , jane .
give one glance to my horrible life when you are gone . all happiness will be torn away with you .
what then is left ?
for a wife i have but the maniac upstairs : as well might you refer me to some corpse in yonder churchyard .
what shall i do , jane ? where turn for a companion and for some hope ? "
" do as i do : trust in god and yourself . believe in heaven . hope to meet again there . "
" then you will not yield ? "
" no . "
" then you condemn me to live wretched and to die accursed ? "
his voice rose .
" i advise you to live sinless , and i wish you to die tranquil . "
" then you snatch love and innocence from me ? you fling me back on lust for a passion--vice for an occupation ? "
" mr. rochester , i no more assign this fate to you than i grasp at it for myself .
we were born to strive and endure--you as well as i : do so . you will forget me before i forget you . "
" you make me a liar by such language : you sully my honour .
i declared i could not change : you tell me to my face i shall change soon . and what a distortion in your judgment , what a perversity in your ideas , is proved by your conduct !
is it better to drive a fellow-creature to despair than to transgress a mere human law , no man being injured by the breach ? for you have neither relatives nor acquaintances whom you need fear to offend by living with me ? "
this was true : and while he spoke my very conscience and reason turned traitors against me , and charged me with crime in resisting him .
they spoke almost as loud as feeling : and that clamoured wildly . " oh , comply ! " it said .
" think of his misery ; think of his danger--look at his state when left alone ; remember his headlong nature ; consider the recklessness following on despair--soothe him ; save him ; love him ; tell him you love him and will be his .
who in the world cares for _ you _ ? or who will be injured by what you do ? "
still indomitable was the reply-- " _ i _ care for myself . the more solitary , the more friendless , the more unsustained i am , the more i will respect myself .
i will keep the law given by god ; sanctioned by man . i will hold to the principles received by me when i was sane , and not mad--as i am now .
laws and principles are not for the times when there is no temptation : they are for such moments as this , when body and soul rise in mutiny against their rigour ; stringent are they ; inviolate they shall be .
if at my individual convenience i might break them , what would be their worth ?
they have a worth--so i have always believed ; and if i cannot believe it now , it is because i am insane--quite insane : with my veins running fire , and my heart beating faster than i can count its throbs .
preconceived opinions , foregone determinations , are all i have at this hour to stand by : there i plant my foot . " i did .
mr. rochester , reading my countenance , saw i had done so .
his fury was wrought to the highest : he must yield to it for a moment , whatever followed ; he crossed the floor and seized my arm and grasped my waist .
he seemed to devour me with his flaming glance : physically , i felt , at the moment , powerless as stubble exposed to the draught and glow of a furnace : mentally , i still possessed my soul , and with it the certainty of ultimate safety .
the soul , fortunately , has an interpreter--often an unconscious , but still a truthful interpreter--in the eye .
my eye rose to his ; and while i looked in his fierce face i gave an involuntary sigh ; his gripe was painful , and my over-taxed strength almost exhausted .
" never , " said he , as he ground his teeth , " never was anything at once so frail and so indomitable .
a mere reed she feels in my hand ! " ( and he shook me with the force of his hold . ) " i could bend her with my finger and thumb : and what good would it do if i bent , if i uptore , if i crushed her ?
consider that eye : consider the resolute , wild , free thing looking out of it , defying me , with more than courage--with a stern triumph .
whatever i do with its cage , i cannot get at it--the savage , beautiful creature ! if i tear , if i rend the slight prison , my outrage will only let the captive loose .
conqueror i might be of the house ; but the inmate would escape to heaven before i could call myself possessor of its clay dwelling-place . and it is you , spirit--with will and energy , and virtue and purity--that i want : not alone your brittle frame .
of yourself you could come with soft flight and nestle against my heart , if you would : seized against your will , you will elude the grasp like an essence--you will vanish ere i inhale your fragrance .
oh ! come , jane , come ! "
as he said this , he released me from his clutch , and only looked at me .
the look was far worse to resist than the frantic strain : only an idiot , however , would have succumbed now .
i had dared and baffled his fury ; i must elude his sorrow : i retired to the door .
" you are going , jane ? "
" i am going , sir . "
" you are leaving me ? "
" yes . "
" you will not come ? you will not be my comforter , my rescuer ?
my deep love , my wild woe , my frantic prayer , are all nothing to you ? "
what unutterable pathos was in his voice ! how hard it was to reiterate firmly , " i am going . "
" jane ! "
" mr. rochester ! "
" withdraw , then , --i consent ; but remember , you leave me here in anguish .
go up to your own room ; think over all i have said , and , jane , cast a glance on my sufferings--think of me . "
he turned away ; he threw himself on his face on the sofa .
" oh , jane ! my hope--my love--my life ! " broke in anguish from his lips .
then came a deep , strong sob .
i had already gained the door ; but , reader , i walked back--walked back as determinedly as i had retreated .
i knelt down by him ; i turned his face from the cushion to me ; i kissed his cheek ; i smoothed his hair with my hand .
" god bless you , my dear master ! " i said . " god keep you from harm and wrong--direct you , solace you--reward you well for your past kindness to me . "
" little jane 's love would have been my best reward , " he answered ; " without it , my heart is broken . but jane will give me her love : yes--nobly , generously . "
up the blood rushed to his face ; forth flashed the fire from his eyes ; erect he sprang ; he held his arms out ; but i evaded the embrace , and at once quitted the room .
" farewell ! " was the cry of my heart as i left him . despair added , " farewell for ever ! "
* * * * * that night i never thought to sleep ; but a slumber fell on me as soon as i lay down in bed .
i was transported in thought to the scenes of childhood : i dreamt i lay in the red-room at gateshead ; that the night was dark , and my mind impressed with strange fears . the light that long ago had struck me into syncope , recalled in this vision , seemed glidingly to mount the wall , and tremblingly to pause in the centre of the obscured ceiling .
i lifted up my head to look : the roof resolved to clouds , high and dim ; the gleam was such as the moon imparts to vapours she is about to sever .
i watched her come--watched with the strangest anticipation ; as though some word of doom were to be written on her disk .
she broke forth as never moon yet burst from cloud : a hand first penetrated the sable folds and waved them away ; then , not a moon , but a white human form shone in the azure , inclining a glorious brow earthward .
it gazed and gazed on me . it spoke to my spirit : immeasurably distant was the tone , yet so near , it whispered in my heart--
" my daughter , flee temptation . "
" mother , i will . "
so i answered after i had waked from the trance-like dream .
it was yet night , but july nights are short : soon after midnight , dawn comes .
" it cannot be too early to commence the task i have to fulfil , " thought i. i rose : i was dressed ; for i had taken off nothing but my shoes .
i knew where to find in my drawers some linen , a locket , a ring .
in seeking these articles , i encountered the beads of a pearl necklace mr. rochester had forced me to accept a few days ago .
i left that ; it was not mine : it was the visionary bride 's who had melted in air .
the other articles i made up in a parcel ; my purse , containing twenty shillings ( it was all i had ) , i put in my pocket : i tied on my straw bonnet , pinned my shawl , took the parcel and my slippers , which i would not put on yet , and stole from my room .
" farewell , kind mrs. fairfax ! " i whispered , as i glided past her door .
" farewell , my darling adele ! " i said , as i glanced towards the nursery . no thought could be admitted of entering to embrace her .
i had to deceive a fine ear : for aught i knew it might now be listening . i would have got past mr. rochester 's chamber without a pause ; but my heart momentarily stopping its beat at that threshold , my foot was forced to stop also .
no sleep was there : the inmate was walking restlessly from wall to wall ; and again and again he sighed while i listened .
there was a heaven--a temporary heaven--in this room for me , if i chose : i had but to go in and to say-- " mr. rochester , i will love you and live with you through life till death , " and a fount of rapture would spring to my lips .
i thought of this .
that kind master , who could not sleep now , was waiting with impatience for day . he would send for me in the morning ; i should be gone . he would have me sought for : vainly . he would feel himself forsaken ; his love rejected : he would suffer ; perhaps grow desperate .
i thought of this too . my hand moved towards the lock : i caught it back , and glided on .
drearily i wound my way downstairs : i knew what i had to do , and i did it mechanically .
i sought the key of the side-door in the kitchen ; i sought , too , a phial of oil and a feather ; i oiled the key and the lock . i got some water , i got some bread : for perhaps i should have to walk far ; and my strength , sorely shaken of late , must not break down . all this i did without one sound .
i opened the door , passed out , shut it softly . dim dawn glimmered in the yard .
the great gates were closed and locked ; but a wicket in one of them was only latched . through that i departed : it , too , i shut ; and now i was out of thornfield .
a mile off , beyond the fields , lay a road which stretched in the contrary direction to millcote ; a road i had never travelled , but often noticed , and wondered where it led : thither i bent my steps .
no reflection was to be allowed now : not one glance was to be cast back ; not even one forward . not one thought was to be given either to the past or the future .
the first was a page so heavenly sweet--so deadly sad--that to read one line of it would dissolve my courage and break down my energy . the last was an awful blank : something like the world when the deluge was gone by .
i skirted fields , and hedges , and lanes till after sunrise .
i believe it was a lovely summer morning : i know my shoes , which i had put on when i left the house , were soon wet with dew . but i looked neither to rising sun , nor smiling sky , nor wakening nature .
he who is taken out to pass through a fair scene to the scaffold , thinks not of the flowers that smile on his road , but of the block and axe-edge ; of the disseverment of bone and vein ; of the grave gaping at the end : and i thought of drear flight and homeless wandering--and oh ! with agony i thought of what i left .
i could not help it . i thought of him now--in his room--watching the sunrise ; hoping i should soon come to say i would stay with him and be his .
i longed to be his ; i panted to return : it was not too late ; i could yet spare him the bitter pang of bereavement .
as yet my flight , i was sure , was undiscovered . i could go back and be his comforter--his pride ; his redeemer from misery , perhaps from ruin .
oh , that fear of his self-abandonment--far worse than my abandonment--how it goaded me !
it was a barbed arrow-head in my breast ; it tore me when i tried to extract it ; it sickened me when remembrance thrust it farther in .
birds began singing in brake and copse : birds were faithful to their mates ; birds were emblems of love .
what was i ?
in the midst of my pain of heart and frantic effort of principle , i abhorred myself .
i had no solace from self-approbation : none even from self-respect . i had injured--wounded--left my master .
i was hateful in my own eyes .
still i could not turn , nor retrace one step .
god must have led me on . as to my own will or conscience , impassioned grief had trampled one and stifled the other .
i was weeping wildly as i walked along my solitary way : fast , fast i went like one delirious .
a weakness , beginning inwardly , extending to the limbs , seized me , and i fell : i lay on the ground some minutes , pressing my face to the wet turf .
i had some fear--or hope--that here i should die : but i was soon up ; crawling forwards on my hands and knees , and then again raised to my feet--as eager and as determined as ever to reach the road .
when i got there , i was forced to sit to rest me under the hedge ; and while i sat , i heard wheels , and saw a coach come on .
i stood up and lifted my hand ; it stopped .
i asked where it was going : the driver named a place a long way off , and where i was sure mr. rochester had no connections .
i asked for what sum he would take me there ; he said thirty shillings ; i answered i had but twenty ; well , he would try to make it do .
he further gave me leave to get into the inside , as the vehicle was empty : i entered , was shut in , and it rolled on its way .
gentle reader , may you never feel what i then felt !
may your eyes never shed such stormy , scalding , heart-wrung tears as poured from mine .
may you never appeal to heaven in prayers so hopeless and so agonised as in that hour left my lips ; for never may you , like me , dread to be the instrument of evil to what you wholly love .
chapter xxviii
two days are passed .
it is a summer evening ; the coachman has set me down at a place called whitcross ; he could take me no farther for the sum i had given , and i was not possessed of another shilling in the world . the coach is a mile off by this time ; i am alone .
at this moment i discover that i forgot to take my parcel out of the pocket of the coach , where i had placed it for safety ; there it remains , there it must remain ; and now , i am absolutely destitute .
whitcross is no town , nor even a hamlet ; it is but a stone pillar set up where four roads meet : whitewashed , i suppose , to be more obvious at a distance and in darkness .
four arms spring from its summit : the nearest town to which these point is , according to the inscription , distant ten miles ; the farthest , above twenty .
from the well-known names of these towns i learn in what county i have lighted ; a north-midland shire , dusk with moorland , ridged with mountain : this i see . there are great moors behind and on each hand of me ; there are waves of mountains far beyond that deep valley at my feet .
the population here must be thin , and i see no passengers on these roads : they stretch out east , west , north , and south--white , broad , lonely ; they are all cut in the moor , and the heather grows deep and wild to their very verge .
yet a chance traveller might pass by ; and i wish no eye to see me now : strangers would wonder what i am doing , lingering here at the sign-post , evidently objectless and lost .
i might be questioned : i could give no answer but what would sound incredible and excite suspicion .
not a tie holds me to human society at this moment--not a charm or hope calls me where my fellow-creatures are--none that saw me would have a kind thought or a good wish for me .
i have no relative but the universal mother , nature : i will seek her breast and ask repose .
i struck straight into the heath ; i held on to a hollow i saw deeply furrowing the brown moorside ; i waded knee-deep in its dark growth ; i turned with its turnings , and finding a moss-blackened granite crag in a hidden angle , i sat down under it . high banks of moor were about me ; the crag protected my head : the sky was over that .
some time passed before i felt tranquil even here : i had a vague dread that wild cattle might be near , or that some sportsman or poacher might discover me .
if a gust of wind swept the waste , i looked up , fearing it was the rush of a bull ; if a plover whistled , i imagined it a man . finding my apprehensions unfounded , however , and calmed by the deep silence that reigned as evening declined at nightfall , i took confidence .
as yet i had not thought ; i had only listened , watched , dreaded ; now i regained the faculty of reflection .
what was i to do ?
where to go ?
oh , intolerable questions , when i could do nothing and go nowhere ! --when a long way must yet be measured by my weary , trembling limbs before i could reach human habitation--when cold charity must be entreated before i could get a lodging : reluctant sympathy importuned , almost certain repulse incurred , before my tale could be listened to , or one of my wants relieved !
i touched the heath : it was dry , and yet warm with the heat of the summer day .
i looked at the sky ; it was pure : a kindly star twinkled just above the chasm ridge . the dew fell , but with propitious softness ; no breeze whispered .
nature seemed to me benign and good ; i thought she loved me , outcast as i was ; and i , who from man could anticipate only mistrust , rejection , insult , clung to her with filial fondness .
to-night , at least , i would be her guest , as i was her child : my mother would lodge me without money and without price .
i had one morsel of bread yet : the remnant of a roll i had bought in a town we passed through at noon with a stray penny--my last coin . i saw ripe bilberries gleaming here and there , like jet beads in the heath : i gathered a handful and ate them with the bread .
my hunger , sharp before , was , if not satisfied , appeased by this hermit 's meal . i said my evening prayers at its conclusion , and then chose my couch .
beside the crag the heath was very deep : when i lay down my feet were buried in it ; rising high on each side , it left only a narrow space for the night-air to invade .
i folded my shawl double , and spread it over me for a coverlet ; a low , mossy swell was my pillow . thus lodged , i was not , at least--at the commencement of the night , cold .
my rest might have been blissful enough , only a sad heart broke it . it plained of its gaping wounds , its inward bleeding , its riven chords .
it trembled for mr. rochester and his doom ; it bemoaned him with bitter pity ; it demanded him with ceaseless longing ; and , impotent as a bird with both wings broken , it still quivered its shattered pinions in vain attempts to seek him .
worn out with this torture of thought , i rose to my knees . night was come , and her planets were risen : a safe , still night : too serene for the companionship of fear .
we know that god is everywhere ; but certainly we feel his presence most when his works are on the grandest scale spread before us ; and it is in the unclouded night-sky , where his worlds wheel their silent course , that we read clearest his infinitude , his omnipotence , his omnipresence .
i had risen to my knees to pray for mr. rochester . looking up , i , with tear-dimmed eyes , saw the mighty milky- way . remembering what it was--what countless systems there swept space like a soft trace of light--i felt the might and strength of god .
sure was i of his efficiency to save what he had made : convinced i grew that neither earth should perish , nor one of the souls it treasured .
i turned my prayer to thanksgiving : the source of life was also the saviour of spirits .
mr. rochester was safe ; he was god 's , and by god would he be guarded .
i again nestled to the breast of the hill ; and ere long in sleep forgot sorrow . but next day , want came to me pale and bare .
long after the little birds had left their nests ; long after bees had come in the sweet prime of day to gather the heath honey before the dew was dried--when the long morning shadows were curtailed , and the sun filled earth and sky--i got up , and i looked round me .
what a still , hot , perfect day ! what a golden desert this spreading moor !
everywhere sunshine . i wished i could live in it and on it .
i saw a lizard run over the crag ; i saw a bee busy among the sweet bilberries . i would fain at the moment have become bee or lizard , that i might have found fitting nutriment , permanent shelter here .
but i was a human being , and had a human being 's wants : i must not linger where there was nothing to supply them . i rose ; i looked back at the bed i had left .
hopeless of the future , i wished but this--that my maker had that night thought good to require my soul of me while i slept ; and that this weary frame , absolved by death from further conflict with fate , had now but to decay quietly , and mingle in peace with the soil of this wilderness .
life , however , was yet in my possession , with all its requirements , and pains , and responsibilities .
the burden must be carried ; the want provided for ; the suffering endured ; the responsibility fulfilled .
i set out .
whitcross regained , i followed a road which led from the sun , now fervent and high . by no other circumstance had i will to decide my choice .
i walked a long time , and when i thought i had nearly done enough , and might conscientiously yield to the fatigue that almost overpowered me--might relax this forced action , and , sitting down on a stone i saw near , submit resistlessly to the apathy that clogged heart and limb--i heard a bell chime--a church bell .
i turned in the direction of the sound , and there , amongst the romantic hills , whose changes and aspect i had ceased to note an hour ago , i saw a hamlet and a spire .
all the valley at my right hand was full of pasture- fields , and cornfields , and wood ; and a glittering stream ran zig-zag through the varied shades of green , the mellowing grain , the sombre woodland , the clear and sunny lea .
recalled by the rumbling of wheels to the road before me , i saw a heavily-laden waggon labouring up the hill , and not far beyond were two cows and their drover .
human life and human labour were near . i must struggle on : strive to live and bend to toil like the rest .
about two o 'clock p.m. i entered the village .
at the bottom of its one street there was a little shop with some cakes of bread in the window . i coveted a cake of bread .
with that refreshment i could perhaps regain a degree of energy : without it , it would be difficult to proceed .
the wish to have some strength and some vigour returned to me as soon as i was amongst my fellow-beings . i felt it would be degrading to faint with hunger on the causeway of a hamlet .
had i nothing about me i could offer in exchange for one of these rolls ?
i considered .
i had a small silk handkerchief tied round my throat ; i had my gloves .
i could hardly tell how men and women in extremities of destitution proceeded . i did not know whether either of these articles would be accepted : probably they would not ; but i must try .
i entered the shop : a woman was there .
seeing a respectably-dressed person , a lady as she supposed , she came forward with civility . how could she serve me ?
i was seized with shame : my tongue would not utter the request i had prepared . i dared not offer her the half-worn gloves , the creased handkerchief : besides , i felt it would be absurd .
i only begged permission to sit down a moment , as i was tired .
disappointed in the expectation of a customer , she coolly acceded to my request . she pointed to a seat ; i sank into it .
i felt sorely urged to weep ; but conscious how unseasonable such a manifestation would be , i restrained it .
soon i asked her " if there were any dressmaker or plain-workwoman in the village ? "
" yes ; two or three . quite as many as there was employment for . "
i reflected .
i was driven to the point now . i was brought face to face with necessity . i stood in the position of one without a resource , without a friend , without a coin .
i must do something . what ?
i must apply somewhere . where ?
" did she know of any place in the neighbourhood where a servant was wanted ? "
" nay ; she couldn 't say . "
" what was the chief trade in this place ? what did most of the people do ? "
" some were farm labourers ; a good deal worked at mr. oliver 's needle-factory , and at the foundry . "
" did mr. oliver employ women ? "
" nay ; it was men 's work . "
" and what do the women do ? " " i knawn 't , " was the answer . " some does one thing , and some another . poor folk mun get on as they can . "
she seemed to be tired of my questions : and , indeed , what claim had i to importune her ?
a neighbour or two came in ; my chair was evidently wanted . i took leave .
i passed up the street , looking as i went at all the houses to the right hand and to the left ; but i could discover no pretext , nor see an inducement to enter any .
i rambled round the hamlet , going sometimes to a little distance and returning again , for an hour or more .
much exhausted , and suffering greatly now for want of food , i turned aside into a lane and sat down under the hedge . ere many minutes had elapsed , i was again on my feet , however , and again searching something--a resource , or at least an informant .
a pretty little house stood at the top of the lane , with a garden before it , exquisitely neat and brilliantly blooming . i stopped at it .
what business had i to approach the white door or touch the glittering knocker ? in what way could it possibly be the interest of the inhabitants of that dwelling to serve me ?
yet i drew near and knocked .
a mild-looking , cleanly-attired young woman opened the door . in such a voice as might be expected from a hopeless heart and fainting frame--a voice wretchedly low and faltering--i asked if a servant was wanted here ?
" no , " said she ; " we do not keep a servant . "
" can you tell me where i could get employment of any kind ? " i continued .
" i am a stranger , without acquaintance in this place . i want some work : no matter what . "
but it was not her business to think for me , or to seek a place for me : besides , in her eyes , how doubtful must have appeared my character , position , tale .
she shook her head , she " was sorry she could give me no information , " and the white door closed , quite gently and civilly : but it shut me out . if she had held it open a little longer , i believe i should have begged a piece of bread ; for i was now brought low .
i could not bear to return to the sordid village , where , besides , no prospect of aid was visible .
i should have longed rather to deviate to a wood i saw not far off , which appeared in its thick shade to offer inviting shelter ; but i was so sick , so weak , so gnawed with nature 's cravings , instinct kept me roaming round abodes where there was a chance of food . solitude would be no solitude--rest no rest--while the vulture , hunger , thus sank beak and talons in my side .
i drew near houses ; i left them , and came back again , and again i wandered away : always repelled by the consciousness of having no claim to ask--no right to expect interest in my isolated lot .
meantime , the afternoon advanced , while i thus wandered about like a lost and starving dog .
in crossing a field , i saw the church spire before me : i hastened towards it .
near the churchyard , and in the middle of a garden , stood a well-built though small house , which i had no doubt was the parsonage .
i remembered that strangers who arrive at a place where they have no friends , and who want employment , sometimes apply to the clergyman for introduction and aid . it is the clergyman 's function to help--at least with advice--those who wished to help themselves .
i seemed to have something like a right to seek counsel here .
renewing then my courage , and gathering my feeble remains of strength , i pushed on . i reached the house , and knocked at the kitchen-door .
an old woman opened : i asked was this the parsonage ?
" yes . "
" was the clergyman in ? "
" no . "
" would he be in soon ? "
" no , he was gone from home . "
" to a distance ? "
" not so far--happen three mile .
he had been called away by the sudden death of his father : he was at marsh end now , and would very likely stay there a fortnight longer . "
" was there any lady of the house ? "
" nay , there was naught but her , and she was housekeeper ; " and of her , reader , i could not bear to ask the relief for want of which i was sinking ; i could not yet beg ; and again i crawled away .
once more i took off my handkerchief--once more i thought of the cakes of bread in the little shop .
oh , for but a crust ! for but one mouthful to allay the pang of famine !
instinctively i turned my face again to the village ; i found the shop again , and i went in ; and though others were there besides the woman i ventured the request-- " would she give me a roll for this handkerchief ? "
she looked at me with evident suspicion : " nay , she never sold stuff i ' that way . "
almost desperate , i asked for half a cake ; she again refused . " how could she tell where i had got the handkerchief ? " she said .
" would she take my gloves ? "
" no ! what could she do with them ? "
reader , it is not pleasant to dwell on these details .
some say there is enjoyment in looking back to painful experience past ; but at this day i can scarcely bear to review the times to which i allude : the moral degradation , blent with the physical suffering , form too distressing a recollection ever to be willingly dwelt on .
i blamed none of those who repulsed me . i felt it was what was to be expected , and what could not be helped : an ordinary beggar is frequently an object of suspicion ; a well-dressed beggar inevitably so .
to be sure , what i begged was employment ; but whose business was it to provide me with employment ?
not , certainly , that of persons who saw me then for the first time , and who knew nothing about my character .
and as to the woman who would not take my handkerchief in exchange for her bread , why , she was right , if the offer appeared to her sinister or the exchange unprofitable .
let me condense now . i am sick of the subject .
a little before dark i passed a farm-house , at the open door of which the farmer was sitting , eating his supper of bread and cheese .
i stopped and said-- " will you give me a piece of bread ? for i am very hungry . "
he cast on me a glance of surprise ; but without answering , he cut a thick slice from his loaf , and gave it to me .
i imagine he did not think i was a beggar , but only an eccentric sort of lady , who had taken a fancy to his brown loaf . as soon as i was out of sight of his house , i sat down and ate it .
i could not hope to get a lodging under a roof , and sought it in the wood i have before alluded to . but my night was wretched , my rest broken : the ground was damp , the air cold : besides , intruders passed near me more than once , and i had again and again to change my quarters ; no sense of safety or tranquillity befriended me .
towards morning it rained ; the whole of the following day was wet .
do not ask me , reader , to give a minute account of that day ; as before , i sought work ; as before , i was repulsed ; as before , i starved ; but once did food pass my lips .
at the door of a cottage i saw a little girl about to throw a mess of cold porridge into a pig trough . " will you give me that ? "
she stared at me .
" mother ! " she exclaimed , " there is a woman wants me to give her these porridge . "
" well lass , " replied a voice within , " give it her if she 's a beggar . t ' pig doesn 't want it . "
the girl emptied the stiffened mould into my hand , and i devoured it ravenously .
as the wet twilight deepened , i stopped in a solitary bridle-path , which i had been pursuing an hour or more .
" my strength is quite failing me , " i said in a soliloquy . " i feel i cannot go much farther . shall i be an outcast again this night ? while the rain descends so , must i lay my head on the cold , drenched ground ?
i fear i cannot do otherwise : for who will receive me ?
but it will be very dreadful , with this feeling of hunger , faintness , chill , and this sense of desolation--this total prostration of hope .
in all likelihood , though , i should die before morning .
and why cannot i reconcile myself to the prospect of death ?
why do i struggle to retain a valueless life ?
because i know , or believe , mr. rochester is living : and then , to die of want and cold is a fate to which nature cannot submit passively .
oh , providence ! sustain me a little longer ! aid ! --direct me ! "
my glazed eye wandered over the dim and misty landscape . i saw i had strayed far from the village : it was quite out of sight .
the very cultivation surrounding it had disappeared . i had , by cross-ways and by- paths , once more drawn near the tract of moorland ; and now , only a few fields , almost as wild and unproductive as the heath from which they were scarcely reclaimed , lay between me and the dusky hill .
" well , i would rather die yonder than in a street or on a frequented road , " i reflected . " and far better that crows and ravens--if any ravens there be in these regions--should pick my flesh from my bones , than that they should be prisoned in a workhouse coffin and moulder in a pauper 's grave . "
to the hill , then , i turned . i reached it .
it remained now only to find a hollow where i could lie down , and feel at least hidden , if not secure . but all the surface of the waste looked level .
it showed no variation but of tint : green , where rush and moss overgrew the marshes ; black , where the dry soil bore only heath .
dark as it was getting , i could still see these changes , though but as mere alternations of light and shade ; for colour had faded with the daylight .
my eye still roved over the sullen swell and along the moor-edge , vanishing amidst the wildest scenery , when at one dim point , far in among the marshes and the ridges , a light sprang up .
" that is an _ ignis fatuus _ , " was my first thought ; and i expected it would soon vanish . it burnt on , however , quite steadily , neither receding nor advancing .
" is it , then , a bonfire just kindled ? "
i questioned . i watched to see whether it would spread : but no ; as it did not diminish , so it did not enlarge .
" it may be a candle in a house , " i then conjectured ; " but if so , i can never reach it . it is much too far away : and were it within a yard of me , what would it avail ?
one gleam of light lifted into relief a half-submerged mast , on which sat a cormorant , dark and large , with wings flecked with foam ; its beak held a gold bracelet set with gems , that i had touched with as brilliant tints as my palette could yield , and as glittering distinctness as my pencil could impart .
sinking below the bird and mast , a drowned corpse glanced through the green water ; a fair arm was the only limb clearly visible , whence the bracelet had been washed or torn .
the second picture contained for foreground only the dim peak of a hill , with grass and some leaves slanting as if by a breeze .
beyond and above spread an expanse of sky , dark blue as at twilight : rising into the sky was a woman 's shape to the bust , portrayed in tints as dusk and soft as i could combine .
the dim forehead was crowned with a star ; the lineaments below were seen as through the suffusion of vapour ; the eyes shone dark and wild ; the hair streamed shadowy , like a beamless cloud torn by storm or by electric travail .
on the neck lay a pale reflection like moonlight ; the same faint lustre touched the train of thin clouds from which rose and bowed this vision of the evening star .
the third showed the pinnacle of an iceberg piercing a polar winter sky : a muster of northern lights reared their dim lances , close serried , along the horizon .
throwing these into distance , rose , in the foreground , a head , --a colossal head , inclined towards the iceberg , and resting against it .
two thin hands , joined under the forehead , and supporting it , drew up before the lower features a sable veil , a brow quite bloodless , white as bone , and an eye hollow and fixed , blank of meaning but for the glassiness of despair , alone were visible .
above the temples , amidst wreathed turban folds of black drapery , vague in its character and consistency as cloud , gleamed a ring of white flame , gemmed with sparkles of a more lurid tinge .
this pale crescent was " the likeness of a kingly crown ; " what it diademed was " the shape which shape had none . "
" were you happy when you painted these pictures ? " asked mr. rochester presently .
" i was absorbed , sir : yes , and i was happy . to paint them , in short , was to enjoy one of the keenest pleasures i have ever known . "
" that is not saying much .
your pleasures , by your own account , have been few ; but i daresay you did exist in a kind of artist 's dreamland while you blent and arranged these strange tints .
did you sit at them long each day ? "
" i had nothing else to do , because it was the vacation , and i sat at them from morning till noon , and from noon till night : the length of the midsummer days favoured my inclination to apply . "
" and you felt self-satisfied with the result of your ardent labours ? "
" far from it . i was tormented by the contrast between my idea and my handiwork : in each case i had imagined something which i was quite powerless to realise . "
" not quite : you have secured the shadow of your thought ; but no more , probably .
you had not enough of the artist 's skill and science to give it full being : yet the drawings are , for a school-girl , peculiar . as to the thoughts , they are elfish .
these eyes in the evening star you must have seen in a dream .
how could you make them look so clear , and yet not at all brilliant ? for the planet above quells their rays .
and what meaning is that in their solemn depth ?
and who taught you to paint wind ?
there is a high gale in that sky , and on this hill-top .
where did you see latmos ?
for that is latmos .
there ! put the drawings away ! " i had scarce tied the strings of the portfolio , when , looking at his watch , he said abruptly-- " it is nine o 'clock : what are you about , miss eyre , to let adele sit up so long ?
take her to bed . "
adele went to kiss him before quitting the room : he endured the caress , but scarcely seemed to relish it more than pilot would have done , nor so much .
" i wish you all good-night , now , " said he , making a movement of the hand towards the door , in token that he was tired of our company , and wished to dismiss us .
mrs. fairfax folded up her knitting : i took my portfolio : we curtseyed to him , received a frigid bow in return , and so withdrew .
" you said mr. rochester was not strikingly peculiar , mrs. fairfax , " i observed , when i rejoined her in her room , after putting adele to bed .
" well , is he ? "
" i think so : he is very changeful and abrupt . "
" true : no doubt he may appear so to a stranger , but i am so accustomed to his manner , i never think of it ; and then , if he has peculiarities of temper , allowance should be made . " " why ? "
" partly because it is his nature--and we can none of us help our nature ; and partly because he has painful thoughts , no doubt , to harass him , and make his spirits unequal . "
" what about ? " " family troubles , for one thing . " " but he has no family . "
" not now , but he has had--or , at least , relatives . he lost his elder brother a few years since . "
" his _ elder _ brother ? "
" yes . the present mr. rochester has not been very long in possession of the property ; only about nine years . "
" nine years is a tolerable time . was he so very fond of his brother as to be still inconsolable for his loss ? "
" why , no--perhaps not .
i believe there were some misunderstandings between them .
mr. rowland rochester was not quite just to mr. edward ; and perhaps he prejudiced his father against him .
the old gentleman was fond of money , and anxious to keep the family estate together .
he did not like to diminish the property by division , and yet he was anxious that mr. edward should have wealth , too , to keep up the consequence of the name ; and , soon after he was of age , some steps were taken that were not quite fair , and made a great deal of mischief .
old mr. rochester and mr. rowland combined to bring mr. edward into what he considered a painful position , for the sake of making his fortune : what the precise nature of that position was i never clearly knew , but his spirit could not brook what he had to suffer in it .
" why should he shun it ? "
" perhaps he thinks it gloomy . "
the answer was evasive .
i should have liked something clearer ; but mrs. fairfax either could not , or would not , give me more explicit information of the origin and nature of mr. rochester 's trials .
she averred they were a mystery to herself , and that what she knew was chiefly from conjecture . it was evident , indeed , that she wished me to drop the subject , which i did accordingly .
chapter xiv
for several subsequent days i saw little of mr. rochester .
in the mornings he seemed much engaged with business , and , in the afternoon , gentlemen from millcote or the neighbourhood called , and sometimes stayed to dine with him .
when his sprain was well enough to admit of horse exercise , he rode out a good deal ; probably to return these visits , as he generally did not come back till late at night .
during this interval , even adele was seldom sent for to his presence , and all my acquaintance with him was confined to an occasional rencontre in the hall , on the stairs , or in the gallery , when he would sometimes pass me haughtily and coldly , just acknowledging my presence by a distant nod or a cool glance , and sometimes bow and smile with gentlemanlike affability .
his changes of mood did not offend me , because i saw that i had nothing to do with their alternation ; the ebb and flow depended on causes quite disconnected with me .
one day he had had company to dinner , and had sent for my portfolio ; in order , doubtless , to exhibit its contents : the gentlemen went away early , to attend a public meeting at millcote , as mrs. fairfax informed me ; but the night being wet and inclement , mr. rochester did not accompany them .
soon after they were gone he rang the bell : a message came that i and adele were to go downstairs .
i brushed adele 's hair and made her neat , and having ascertained that i was myself in my usual quaker trim , where there was nothing to retouch--all being too close and plain , braided locks included , to admit of disarrangement--we descended , adele wondering whether the _ petit coffre _ was at length come ; for , owing to some mistake , its arrival had hitherto been delayed .
she was gratified : there it stood , a little carton , on the table when we entered the dining-room . she appeared to know it by instinct .
" ma boite ! ma boite ! " exclaimed she , running towards it .
" yes , there is your ' boite ' at last : take it into a corner , you genuine daughter of paris , and amuse yourself with disembowelling it , " said the deep and rather sarcastic voice of mr. rochester , proceeding from the depths of an immense easy-chair at the fireside .
" and mind , " he continued , " don 't bother me with any details of the anatomical process , or any notice of the condition of the entrails : let your operation be conducted in silence : tiens-toi tranquille , enfant ; comprends-tu ? "
adele seemed scarcely to need the warning--she had already retired to a sofa with her treasure , and was busy untying the cord which secured the lid .
having removed this impediment , and lifted certain silvery envelopes of tissue paper , she merely exclaimed--
" oh ciel ! que c 'est beau ! " and then remained absorbed in ecstatic contemplation .
" is miss eyre there ? " now demanded the master , half rising from his seat to look round to the door , near which i still stood .
" ah ! well , come forward ; be seated here . " he drew a chair near his own .
" i am not fond of the prattle of children , " he continued ; " for , old bachelor as i am , i have no pleasant associations connected with their lisp . it would be intolerable to me to pass a whole evening _ tete-a-tete _ with a brat .
don 't draw that chair farther off , miss eyre ; sit down exactly where i placed it--if you please , that is . confound these civilities !
i continually forget them . nor do i particularly affect simple-minded old ladies .
by-the-bye , i must have mine in mind ; it won 't do to neglect her ; she is a fairfax , or wed to one ; and blood is said to be thicker than water . "
he rang , and despatched an invitation to mrs. fairfax , who soon arrived , knitting-basket in hand .
" good evening , madam ; i sent to you for a charitable purpose .
i have forbidden adele to talk to me about her presents , and she is bursting with repletion : have the goodness to serve her as auditress and interlocutrice ; it will be one of the most benevolent acts you ever performed . "
adele , indeed , no sooner saw mrs. fairfax , than she summoned her to her sofa , and there quickly filled her lap with the porcelain , the ivory , the waxen contents of her " boite ; " pouring out , meantime , explanations and raptures in such broken english as she was mistress of .
" now i have performed the part of a good host , " pursued mr. rochester , " put my guests into the way of amusing each other , i ought to be at liberty to attend to my own pleasure .
miss eyre , draw your chair still a little farther forward : you are yet too far back ; i cannot see you without disturbing my position in this comfortable chair , which i have no mind to do . "
i did as i was bid , though i would much rather have remained somewhat in the shade ; but mr. rochester had such a direct way of giving orders , it seemed a matter of course to obey him promptly .
we were , as i have said , in the dining-room : the lustre , which had been lit for dinner , filled the room with a festal breadth of light ; the large fire was all red and clear ; the purple curtains hung rich and ample before the lofty window and loftier arch ; everything was still , save the subdued chat of adele ( she dared not speak loud ) , and , filling up each pause , the beating of winter rain against the panes .
mr. rochester , as he sat in his damask-covered chair , looked different to what i had seen him look before ; not quite so stern--much less gloomy .
there was a smile on his lips , and his eyes sparkled , whether with wine or not , i am not sure ; but i think it very probable .
he was , in short , in his after-dinner mood ; more expanded and genial , and also more self- indulgent than the frigid and rigid temper of the morning ; still he looked preciously grim , cushioning his massive head against the swelling back of his chair , and receiving the light of the fire on his granite- hewn features , and in his great , dark eyes ; for he had great , dark eyes , and very fine eyes , too--not without a certain change in their depths sometimes , which , if it was not softness , reminded you , at least , of that feeling .
he had been looking two minutes at the fire , and i had been looking the same length of time at him , when , turning suddenly , he caught my gaze fastened on his physiognomy .
" you examine me , miss eyre , " said he : " do you think me handsome ? "
i should , if i had deliberated , have replied to this question by something conventionally vague and polite ; but the answer somehow slipped from my tongue before i was aware
-- " no , sir . "
by my word ! there is something singular about you , " said he : " you have the air of a little _ nonnette _ ; quaint , quiet , grave , and simple , as you sit with your hands before you , and your eyes generally bent on the carpet ( except , by-the-bye , when they are directed piercingly to my face ; as just now , for instance ) ; and when one asks you a question , or makes a remark to which you are obliged to reply , you rap out a round rejoinder , which , if not blunt , is at least brusque . what do you mean by it ? "
" sir , i was too plain ; i beg your pardon . i ought to have replied that it was not easy to give an impromptu answer to a question about appearances ; that tastes mostly differ ; and that beauty is of little consequence , or something of that sort . "
" you ought to have replied no such thing .
beauty of little consequence , indeed !
and so , under pretence of softening the previous outrage , of stroking and soothing me into placidity , you stick a sly penknife under my ear !
go on : what fault do you find with me , pray ?
i suppose i have all my limbs and all my features like any other man ? "
" mr. rochester , allow me to disown my first answer : i intended no pointed repartee : it was only a blunder . "
" just so : i think so : and you shall be answerable for it .
criticise me : does my forehead not please you ? "
he lifted up the sable waves of hair which lay horizontally over his brow , and showed a solid enough mass of intellectual organs , but an abrupt deficiency where the suave sign of benevolence should have risen .
" now , ma 'am , am i a fool ? "
" far from it , sir . you would , perhaps , think me rude if i inquired in return whether you are a philanthropist ? "
" there again ! another stick of the penknife , when she pretended to pat my head : and that is because i said i did not like the society of children and old women ( low be it spoken ! ) .
no , young lady , i am not a general philanthropist ; but i bear a conscience ; " and he pointed to the prominences which are said to indicate that faculty , and which , fortunately for him , were sufficiently conspicuous ; giving , indeed , a marked breadth to the upper part of his head : " and , besides , i once had a kind of rude tenderness of heart .
when i was as old as you , i was a feeling fellow enough , partial to the unfledged , unfostered , and unlucky ; but fortune has knocked me about since : she has even kneaded me with her knuckles , and now i flatter myself i am hard and tough as an india-rubber ball ; pervious , though , through a chink or two still , and with one sentient point in the middle of the lump .
yes : does that leave hope for me ? "
" hope of what , sir ? "
" of my final re-transformation from india-rubber back to flesh ? "
" decidedly he has had too much wine , " i thought ; and i did not know what answer to make to his queer question : how could i tell whether he was capable of being re-transformed ?
" you looked very much puzzled , miss eyre ; and though you are not pretty any more than i am handsome , yet a puzzled air becomes you ; besides , it is convenient , for it keeps those searching eyes of yours away from my physiognomy , and busies them with the worsted flowers of the rug ; so puzzle on .
young lady , i am disposed to be gregarious and communicative to-night . "
with this announcement he rose from his chair , and stood , leaning his arm on the marble mantelpiece : in that attitude his shape was seen plainly as well as his face ; his unusual breadth of chest , disproportionate almost to his length of limb .
i am sure most people would have thought him an ugly man ; yet there was so much unconscious pride in his port ; so much ease in his demeanour ; such a look of complete indifference to his own external appearance ; so haughty a reliance on the power of other qualities , intrinsic or adventitious , to atone for the lack of mere personal attractiveness , that , in looking at him , one inevitably shared the indifference , and , even in a blind , imperfect sense , put faith in the confidence .
" i am disposed to be gregarious and communicative to-night , " he repeated , " and that is why i sent for you : the fire and the chandelier were not sufficient company for me ; nor would pilot have been , for none of these can talk .
adele is a degree better , but still far below the mark ; mrs. fairfax ditto ; you , i am persuaded , can suit me if you will : you puzzled me the first evening i invited you down here .
i have almost forgotten you since : other ideas have driven yours from my head ; but to-night i am resolved to be at ease ; to dismiss what importunes , and recall what pleases .
instead of speaking , i smiled ; and not a very complacent or submissive smile either .
" speak , " he urged .
" what about , sir ? " " whatever you like .
i leave both the choice of subject and the manner of treating it entirely to yourself . "
accordingly i sat and said nothing : " if he expects me to talk for the mere sake of talking and showing off , he will find he has addressed himself to the wrong person , " i thought .
" you are dumb , miss eyre . "
i was dumb still . he bent his head a little towards me , and with a single hasty glance seemed to dive into my eyes .
" stubborn ? " he said , " and annoyed . ah ! it is consistent . i put my request in an absurd , almost insolent form .
miss eyre , i beg your pardon . the fact is , once for all , i don 't wish to treat you like an inferior : that is " ( correcting himself ) , " i claim only such superiority as must result from twenty years ' difference in age and a century 's advance in experience .
this is legitimate , _ et j 'y tiens _ , as adele would say ; and it is by virtue of this superiority , and this alone , that i desire you to have the goodness to talk to me a little now , and divert my thoughts , which are galled with dwelling on one point--cankering as a rusty nail . "
he had deigned an explanation , almost an apology , and i did not feel insensible to his condescension , and would not seem so .
" i am willing to amuse you , if i can , sir--quite willing ; but i cannot introduce a topic , because how do i know what will interest you ?
ask me questions , and i will do my best to answer them . "
" then , in the first place , do you agree with me that i have a right to be a little masterful , abrupt , perhaps exacting , sometimes , on the grounds i stated , namely , that i am old enough to be your father , and that i have battled through a varied experience with many men of many nations , and roamed over half the globe , while you have lived quietly with one set of people in one house ? "
" do as you please , sir . "
" that is no answer ; or rather it is a very irritating , because a very evasive one . reply clearly . "
" i don 't think , sir , you have a right to command me , merely because you are older than i , or because you have seen more of the world than i have ; your claim to superiority depends on the use you have made of your time and experience . "
" humph ! promptly spoken .
but i won 't allow that , seeing that it would never suit my case , as i have made an indifferent , not to say a bad , use of both advantages .
leaving superiority out of the question , then , you must still agree to receive my orders now and then , without being piqued or hurt by the tone of command . will you ? "
i smiled : i thought to myself mr. rochester _ is _ peculiar--he seems to forget that he pays me 30 pounds per annum for receiving his orders .
" the smile is very well , " said he , catching instantly the passing expression ; " but speak too . "
" i was thinking , sir , that very few masters would trouble themselves to inquire whether or not their paid subordinates were piqued and hurt by their orders . "
" paid subordinates ! what ! you are my paid subordinate , are you ?
oh yes , i had forgotten the salary ! well then , on that mercenary ground , will you agree to let me hector a little ? "
" no , sir , not on that ground ; but , on the ground that you did forget it , and that you care whether or not a dependent is comfortable in his dependency , i agree heartily . "
" and will you consent to dispense with a great many conventional forms and phrases , without thinking that the omission arises from insolence ? "
" i am sure , sir , i should never mistake informality for insolence : one i rather like , the other nothing free-born would submit to , even for a salary . "
" humbug !
most things free-born will submit to anything for a salary ; therefore , keep to yourself , and don 't venture on generalities of which you are intensely ignorant .
however , i mentally shake hands with you for your answer , despite its inaccuracy ; and as much for the manner in which it was said , as for the substance of the speech ; the manner was frank and sincere ; one does not often see such a manner : no , on the contrary , affectation , or coldness , or stupid , coarse-minded misapprehension of one 's meaning are the usual rewards of candour .
not three in three thousand raw school-girl-governesses would have answered me as you have just done .
but i don 't mean to flatter you : if you are cast in a different mould to the majority , it is no merit of yours : nature did it .
and then , after all , i go too fast in my conclusions : for what i yet know , you may be no better than the rest ; you may have intolerable defects to counterbalance your few good points . "
" and so may you , " i thought .
my eye met his as the idea crossed my mind : he seemed to read the glance , answering as if its import had been spoken as well as imagined--
" yes , yes , you are right , " said he ; " i have plenty of faults of my own : i know it , and i don 't wish to palliate them , i assure you .
god wot i need not be too severe about others ; i have a past existence , a series of deeds , a colour of life to contemplate within my own breast , which might well call my sneers and censures from my neighbours to myself .
i started , or rather ( for like other defaulters , i like to lay half the blame on ill fortune and adverse circumstances ) was thrust on to a wrong tack at the age of one-and-twenty , and have never recovered the right course since : but i might have been very different ; i might have been as good as you--wiser--almost as stainless . i envy you your peace of mind , your clean conscience , your unpolluted memory .
little girl , a memory without blot or contamination must be an exquisite treasure--an inexhaustible source of pure refreshment : is it not ? "
" how was your memory when you were eighteen , sir ? "
" all right then ; limpid , salubrious : no gush of bilge water had turned it to fetid puddle .
i was your equal at eighteen--quite your equal . nature meant me to be , on the whole , a good man , miss eyre ; one of the better kind , and you see i am not so . you would say you don 't see it ; at least i flatter myself i read as much in your eye ( beware , by-the-bye , what you express with that organ ; i am quick at interpreting its language ) .
then take my word for it , --i am not a villain : you are not to suppose that--not to attribute to me any such bad eminence ; but , owing , i verily believe , rather to circumstances than to my natural bent , i am a trite commonplace sinner , hackneyed in all the poor petty dissipations with which the rich and worthless try to put on life .
do you wonder that i avow this to you ? know , that in the course of your future life you will often find yourself elected the involuntary confidant of your acquaintances ' secrets : people will instinctively find out , as i have done , that it is not your forte to tell of yourself , but to listen while others talk of themselves ; they will feel , too , that you listen with no malevolent scorn of their indiscretion , but with a kind of innate sympathy ; not the less comforting and encouraging because it is very unobtrusive in its manifestations . "
" how do you know ? --how can you guess all this , sir ? "
" i know it well ; therefore i proceed almost as freely as if i were writing my thoughts in a diary .
you would say , i should have been superior to circumstances ; so i should--so i should ; but you see i was not .
when fate wronged me , i had not the wisdom to remain cool : i turned desperate ; then i degenerated .
now , when any vicious simpleton excites my disgust by his paltry ribaldry , i cannot flatter myself that i am better than he : i am forced to confess that he and i are on a level .
i wish i had stood firm--god knows i do !
dread remorse when you are tempted to err , miss eyre ; remorse is the poison of life . "
" repentance is said to be its cure , sir . "
" it is not its cure . reformation may be its cure ; and i could reform--i have strength yet for that--if--but where is the use of thinking of it , hampered , burdened , cursed as i am ?
besides , since happiness is irrevocably denied me , i have a right to get pleasure out of life : and i _ will _ get it , cost what it may . "
" then you will degenerate still more , sir . "
" possibly : yet why should i , if i can get sweet , fresh pleasure ? and i may get it as sweet and fresh as the wild honey the bee gathers on the moor . "
" it will sting--it will taste bitter , sir . "
" how do you know ? --you never tried it .
how very serious--how very solemn you look : and you are as ignorant of the matter as this cameo head " ( taking one from the mantelpiece ) .
" you have no right to preach to me , you neophyte , that have not passed the porch of life , and are absolutely unacquainted with its mysteries . " " i only remind you of your own words , sir : you said error brought remorse , and you pronounced remorse the poison of existence . "
" and who talks of error now ? i scarcely think the notion that flittered across my brain was an error . i believe it was an inspiration rather than a temptation : it was very genial , very soothing--i know that .
here it comes again !
it is no devil , i assure you ; or if it be , it has put on the robes of an angel of light . i think i must admit so fair a guest when it asks entrance to my heart . "
" distrust it , sir ; it is not a true angel . "
" once more , how do you know ?
by what instinct do you pretend to distinguish between a fallen seraph of the abyss and a messenger from the eternal throne--between a guide and a seducer ? "
" i judged by your countenance , sir , which was troubled when you said the suggestion had returned upon you . i feel sure it will work you more misery if you listen to it . "
" not at all--it bears the most gracious message in the world : for the rest , you are not my conscience-keeper , so don 't make yourself uneasy .
here , come in , bonny wanderer ! "
he said this as if he spoke to a vision , viewless to any eye but his own ; then , folding his arms , which he had half extended , on his chest , he seemed to enclose in their embrace the invisible being .
" now , " he continued , again addressing me , " i have received the pilgrim--a disguised deity , as i verily believe . already it has done me good : my heart was a sort of charnel ; it will now be a shrine . "
" to speak truth , sir , i don 't understand you at all : i cannot keep up the conversation , because it has got out of my depth .
only one thing , i know : you said you were not as good as you should like to be , and that you regretted your own imperfection ; --one thing i can comprehend : you intimated that to have a sullied memory was a perpetual bane .
it seems to me , that if you tried hard , you would in time find it possible to become what you yourself would approve ; and that if from this day you began with resolution to correct your thoughts and actions , you would in a few years have laid up a new and stainless store of recollections , to which you might revert with pleasure . "
" justly thought ; rightly said , miss eyre ; and , at this moment , i am paving hell with energy . "
" sir ? "
" i am laying down good intentions , which i believe durable as flint .
certainly , my associates and pursuits shall be other than they have been . "
" and better ? "
" and better--so much better as pure ore is than foul dross .
you seem to doubt me ; i don 't doubt myself : i know what my aim is , what my motives are ; and at this moment i pass a law , unalterable as that of the medes and persians , that both are right . "
" they cannot be , sir , if they require a new statute to legalise them . "
" they are , miss eyre , though they absolutely require a new statute : unheard-of combinations of circumstances demand unheard-of rules . "
" that sounds a dangerous maxim , sir ; because one can see at once that it is liable to abuse . "
" sententious sage ! so it is : but i swear by my household gods not to abuse it . "
" you are human and fallible . " " i am : so are you--what then ? "
" the human and fallible should not arrogate a power with which the divine and perfect alone can be safely intrusted . "
" what power ? "
" that of saying of any strange , unsanctioned line of action , -- ' let it be right . ' "
" ' let it be right ' --the very words : you have pronounced them . "
" _ may _ it be right then , " i said , as i rose , deeming it useless to continue a discourse which was all darkness to me ; and , besides , sensible that the character of my interlocutor was beyond my penetration ; at least , beyond its present reach ; and feeling the uncertainty , the vague sense of insecurity , which accompanies a conviction of ignorance .
" where are you going ? " " to put adele to bed : it is past her bedtime . "
" you are afraid of me , because i talk like a sphynx . "
" your language is enigmatical , sir : but though i am bewildered , i am certainly not afraid . "
" you _ are _ afraid--your self-love dreads a blunder . "
" in that sense i do feel apprehensive--i have no wish to talk nonsense . "
" if you did , it would be in such a grave , quiet manner , i should mistake it for sense .
do you never laugh , miss eyre ?
don 't trouble yourself to answer--i see you laugh rarely ; but you can laugh very merrily : believe me , you are not naturally austere , any more than i am naturally vicious .
the lowood constraint still clings to you somewhat ; controlling your features , muffling your voice , and restricting your limbs ; and you fear in the presence of a man and a brother--or father , or master , or what you will--to smile too gaily , speak too freely , or move too quickly : but , in time , i think you will learn to be natural with me , as i find it impossible to be conventional with you ; and then your looks and movements will have more vivacity and variety than they dare offer now .
i see at intervals the glance of a curious sort of bird through the close-set bars of a cage : a vivid , restless , resolute captive is there ; were it but free , it would soar cloud-high . you are still bent on going ? "
" it has struck nine , sir . "
" never mind , --wait a minute : adele is not ready to go to bed yet .
my position , miss eyre , with my back to the fire , and my face to the room , favours observation . while talking to you , i have also occasionally watched adele ( i have my own reasons for thinking her a curious study , --reasons that i may , nay , that i shall , impart to you some day ) .
she pulled out of her box , about ten minutes ago , a little pink silk frock ; rapture lit her face as she unfolded it ; coquetry runs in her blood , blends with her brains , and seasons the marrow of her bones .
'il faut que je l 'essaie ! ' cried she , ' et a l 'instant meme ! ' and she rushed out of the room .
she is now with sophie , undergoing a robing process : in a few minutes she will re-enter ; and i know what i shall see , --a miniature of celine varens , as she used to appear on the boards at the rising of--but never mind that .
however , my tenderest feelings are about to receive a shock : such is my presentiment ; stay now , to see whether it will be realised . "
ere long , adele 's little foot was heard tripping across the hall .
she entered , transformed as her guardian had predicted . a dress of rose-coloured satin , very short , and as full in the skirt as it could be gathered , replaced the brown frock she had previously worn ; a wreath of rosebuds circled her forehead ; her feet were dressed in silk stockings and small white satin sandals .
" est-ce que ma robe va bien ? " cried she , bounding forwards ; " et mes souliers ? et mes bas ?
tenez , je crois que je vais danser ! "
and spreading out her dress , she chasseed across the room till , having reached mr. rochester , she wheeled lightly round before him on tip-toe , then dropped on one knee at his feet , exclaiming--
" monsieur , je vous remercie mille fois de votre bonte ; " then rising , she added , " c 'est comme cela que maman faisait , n 'est-ce pas , monsieur ? "
" pre-cise-ly ! " was the answer ; " and , ' comme cela , ' she charmed my english gold out of my british breeches ' pocket .
i have been green , too , miss eyre , --ay , grass green : not a more vernal tint freshens you now than once freshened me .
my spring is gone , however , but it has left me that french floweret on my hands , which , in some moods , i would fain be rid of .
not valuing now the root whence it sprang ; having found that it was of a sort which nothing but gold dust could manure , i have but half a liking to the blossom , especially when it looks so artificial as just now .
i keep it and rear it rather on the roman catholic principle of expiating numerous sins , great or small , by one good work . i 'll explain all this some day .
good-night . "
chapter xv
mr. rochester did , on a future occasion , explain it .
it was one afternoon , when he chanced to meet me and adele in the grounds : and while she played with pilot and her shuttlecock , he asked me to walk up and down a long beech avenue within sight of her .
he then said that she was the daughter of a french opera-dancer , celine varens , towards whom he had once cherished what he called a " _ grande passion _ . "
this passion celine had professed to return with even superior ardour .
he thought himself her idol , ugly as he was : he believed , as he said , that she preferred his " _ taille d 'athlete _ " to the elegance of the apollo belvidere .
" and , miss eyre , so much was i flattered by this preference of the gallic sylph for her british gnome , that i installed her in an hotel ; gave her a complete establishment of servants , a carriage , cashmeres , diamonds , dentelles , & c .
in short , i began the process of ruining myself in the received style , like any other spoony .
i had not , it seems , the originality to chalk out a new road to shame and destruction , but trode the old track with stupid exactness not to deviate an inch from the beaten centre .
i had--as i deserved to have--the fate of all other spoonies .
happening to call one evening when celine did not expect me , i found her out ; but it was a warm night , and i was tired with strolling through paris , so i sat down in her boudoir ; happy to breathe the air consecrated so lately by her presence .
no , --i exaggerate ; i never thought there was any consecrating virtue about her : it was rather a sort of pastille perfume she had left ; a scent of musk and amber , than an odour of sanctity .
i was just beginning to stifle with the fumes of conservatory flowers and sprinkled essences , when i bethought myself to open the window and step out on to the balcony .
it was moonlight and gaslight besides , and very still and serene . the balcony was furnished with a chair or two ; i sat down , and took out a cigar , --i will take one now , if you will excuse me . "
here ensued a pause , filled up by the producing and lighting of a cigar ; having placed it to his lips and breathed a trail of havannah incense on the freezing and sunless air , he went on--
" i liked bonbons too in those days , miss eyre , and i was _ croquant _ -- ( overlook the barbarism ) -- _ croquant _ chocolate comfits , and smoking alternately , watching meantime the equipages that rolled along the fashionable streets towards the neighbouring opera-house , when in an elegant close carriage drawn by a beautiful pair of english horses , and distinctly seen in the brilliant city-night , i recognised the ' voiture ' i had given celine .
she was returning : of course my heart thumped with impatience against the iron rails i leant upon .
the carriage stopped , as i had expected , at the hotel door ; my flame ( that is the very word for an opera inamorata ) alighted : though muffed in a cloak--an unnecessary encumbrance , by-the-bye , on so warm a june evening--i knew her instantly by her little foot , seen peeping from the skirt of her dress , as she skipped from the carriage-step . bending over the balcony , i was about to murmur ' mon ange ' --in a tone , of course , which should be audible to the ear of love alone--when a figure jumped from the carriage after her ; cloaked also ; but that was a spurred heel which had rung on the pavement , and that was a hatted head which now passed under the arched _ porte cochere _ of the hotel .
" you never felt jealousy , did you , miss eyre ?
of course not : i need not ask you ; because you never felt love .
you have both sentiments yet to experience : your soul sleeps ; the shock is yet to be given which shall waken it .
you think all existence lapses in as quiet a flow as that in which your youth has hitherto slid away . floating on with closed eyes and muffled ears , you neither see the rocks bristling not far off in the bed of the flood , nor hear the breakers boil at their base .
but i tell you--and you may mark my words--you will come some day to a craggy pass in the channel , where the whole of life 's stream will be broken up into whirl and tumult , foam and noise : either you will be dashed to atoms on crag points , or lifted up and borne on by some master-wave into a calmer current--as i am now .
" i like this day ; i like that sky of steel ; i like the sternness and stillness of the world under this frost . i like thornfield , its antiquity , its retirement , its old crow-trees and thorn-trees , its grey facade , and lines of dark windows reflecting that metal welkin : and yet how long have i abhorred the very thought of it , shunned it like a great plague-house ? how i do still abhor-- "
he ground his teeth and was silent : he arrested his step and struck his boot against the hard ground . some hated thought seemed to have him in its grip , and to hold him so tightly that he could not advance .
we were ascending the avenue when he thus paused ; the hall was before us .
lifting his eye to its battlements , he cast over them a glare such as i never saw before or since . pain , shame , ire , impatience , disgust , detestation , seemed momentarily to hold a quivering conflict in the large pupil dilating under his ebon eyebrow .
wild was the wrestle which should be paramount ; but another feeling rose and triumphed : something hard and cynical : self-willed and resolute : it settled his passion and petrified his countenance : he went on--
" during the moment i was silent , miss eyre , i was arranging a point with my destiny . she stood there , by that beech-trunk--a hag like one of those who appeared to macbeth on the heath of forres .
'you like thornfield ? ' she said , lifting her finger ; and then she wrote in the air a memento , which ran in lurid hieroglyphics all along the house-front , between the upper and lower row of windows , ' like it if you can ! like it if you dare ! '
" ' i will like it , ' said i ; ' i dare like it ; ' and " ( he subjoined moodily ) " i will keep my word ; i will break obstacles to happiness , to goodness--yes , goodness .
i wish to be a better man than i have been , than i am ; as job 's leviathan broke the spear , the dart , and the habergeon , hindrances which others count as iron and brass , i will esteem but straw and rotten wood . "
adele here ran before him with her shuttlecock .
" away ! " he cried harshly ; " keep at a distance , child ; or go in to sophie ! "
continuing then to pursue his walk in silence , i ventured to recall him to the point whence he had abruptly diverged-- " did you leave the balcony , sir , " i asked , " when mdlle .
varens entered ? "
i almost expected a rebuff for this hardly well-timed question , but , on the contrary , waking out of his scowling abstraction , he turned his eyes towards me , and the shade seemed to clear off his brow .
" oh , i had forgotten celine ! well , to resume .
when i saw my charmer thus come in accompanied by a cavalier , i seemed to hear a hiss , and the green snake of jealousy , rising on undulating coils from the moonlit balcony , glided within my waistcoat , and ate its way in two minutes to my heart 's core .
strange ! " he exclaimed , suddenly starting again from the point . " strange that i should choose you for the confidant of all this , young lady ; passing strange that you should listen to me quietly , as if it were the most usual thing in the world for a man like me to tell stories of his opera-mistresses to a quaint , inexperienced girl like you ! but the last singularity explains the first , as i intimated once before : you , with your gravity , considerateness , and caution were made to be the recipient of secrets .
besides , i know what sort of a mind i have placed in communication with my own : i know it is one not liable to take infection : it is a peculiar mind : it is a unique one . happily i do not mean to harm it : but , if i did , it would not take harm from me . the more you and i converse , the better ; for while i cannot blight you , you may refresh me . "
after this digression he proceeded--
" i remained in the balcony .
'they will come to her boudoir , no doubt , ' thought i : ' let me prepare an ambush . '
so putting my hand in through the open window , i drew the curtain over it , leaving only an opening through which i could take observations ; then i closed the casement , all but a chink just wide enough to furnish an outlet to lovers ' whispered vows : then i stole back to my chair ; and as i resumed it the pair came in .
my eye was quickly at the aperture . celine 's chamber-maid entered , lit a lamp , left it on the table , and withdrew .
the couple were thus revealed to me clearly : both removed their cloaks , and there was ' the varens , ' shining in satin and jewels , --my gifts of course , --and there was her companion in an officer 's uniform ; and i knew him for a young roue of a vicomte--a brainless and vicious youth whom i had sometimes met in society , and had never thought of hating because i despised him so absolutely .
on recognising him , the fang of the snake jealousy was instantly broken ; because at the same moment my love for celine sank under an extinguisher . a woman who could betray me for such a rival was not worth contending for ; she deserved only scorn ; less , however , than i , who had been her dupe .
" they began to talk ; their conversation eased me completely : frivolous , mercenary , heartless , and senseless , it was rather calculated to weary than enrage a listener .
a card of mine lay on the table ; this being perceived , brought my name under discussion . neither of them possessed energy or wit to belabour me soundly , but they insulted me as coarsely as they could in their little way : especially celine , who even waxed rather brilliant on my personal defects--deformities she termed them .
now it had been her custom to launch out into fervent admiration of what she called my ' _ beaute male _ : ' wherein she differed diametrically from you , who told me point-blank , at the second interview , that you did not think me handsome .
adele here came running up again .
" monsieur , john has just been to say that your agent has called and wishes to see you . "
" ah ! in that case i must abridge .
opening the window , i walked in upon them ; liberated celine from my protection ; gave her notice to vacate her hotel ; offered her a purse for immediate exigencies ; disregarded screams , hysterics , prayers , protestations , convulsions ; made an appointment with the vicomte for a meeting at the bois de boulogne .
next morning i had the pleasure of encountering him ; left a bullet in one of his poor etiolated arms , feeble as the wing of a chicken in the pip , and then thought i had done with the whole crew . but unluckily the varens , six months before , had given me this filette adele , who , she affirmed , was my daughter ; and perhaps she may be , though i see no proofs of such grim paternity written in her countenance : pilot is more like me than she .
some years after i had broken with the mother , she abandoned her child , and ran away to italy with a musician or singer .
i acknowledged no natural claim on adele 's part to be supported by me , nor do i now acknowledge any , for i am not her father ; but hearing that she was quite destitute , i e 'en took the poor thing out of the slime and mud of paris , and transplanted it here , to grow up clean in the wholesome soil of an english country garden .
mrs. fairfax found you to train it ; but now you know that it is the illegitimate offspring of a french opera-girl , you will perhaps think differently of your post and protegee : you will be coming to me some day with notice that you have found another place--that you beg me to look out for a new governess , & c.--eh ? "
" no : adele is not answerable for either her mother 's faults or yours : i have a regard for her ; and now that i know she is , in a sense , parentless--forsaken by her mother and disowned by you , sir--i shall cling closer to her than before .
how could i possibly prefer the spoilt pet of a wealthy family , who would hate her governess as a nuisance , to a lonely little orphan , who leans towards her as a friend ? "
" oh , that is the light in which you view it !
well , i must go in now ; and you too : it darkens . "
but i stayed out a few minutes longer with adele and pilot--ran a race with her , and played a game of battledore and shuttlecock .
when we went in , and i had removed her bonnet and coat , i took her on my knee ; kept her there an hour , allowing her to prattle as she liked : not rebuking even some little freedoms and trivialities into which she was apt to stray when much noticed , and which betrayed in her a superficiality of character , inherited probably from her mother , hardly congenial to an english mind .
still she had her merits ; and i was disposed to appreciate all that was good in her to the utmost .
i sought in her countenance and features a likeness to mr. rochester , but found none : no trait , no turn of expression announced relationship .
it was a pity : if she could but have been proved to resemble him , he would have thought more of her .
it was not till after i had withdrawn to my own chamber for the night , that i steadily reviewed the tale mr. rochester had told me .
as he had said , there was probably nothing at all extraordinary in the substance of the narrative itself : a wealthy englishman 's passion for a french dancer , and her treachery to him , were every-day matters enough , no doubt , in society ; but there was something decidedly strange in the paroxysm of emotion which had suddenly seized him when he was in the act of expressing the present contentment of his mood , and his newly revived pleasure in the old hall and its environs .
i meditated wonderingly on this incident ; but gradually quitting it , as i found it for the present inexplicable , i turned to the consideration of my master 's manner to myself .
the confidence he had thought fit to repose in me seemed a tribute to my discretion : i regarded and accepted it as such .
his deportment had now for some weeks been more uniform towards me than at the first .
i never seemed in his way ; he did not take fits of chilling hauteur : when he met me unexpectedly , the encounter seemed welcome ; he had always a word and sometimes a smile for me : when summoned by formal invitation to his presence , i was honoured by a cordiality of reception that made me feel i really possessed the power to amuse him , and that these evening conferences were sought as much for his pleasure as for my benefit .
i , indeed , talked comparatively little , but i heard him talk with relish . it was his nature to be communicative ; he liked to open to a mind unacquainted with the world glimpses of its scenes and ways ( i do not mean its corrupt scenes and wicked ways , but such as derived their interest from the great scale on which they were acted , the strange novelty by which they were characterised ) ; and i had a keen delight in receiving the new ideas he offered , in imagining the new pictures he portrayed , and following him in thought through the new regions he disclosed , never startled or troubled by one noxious allusion .
the ease of his manner freed me from painful restraint : the friendly frankness , as correct as cordial , with which he treated me , drew me to him .
i felt at times as if he were my relation rather than my master : yet he was imperious sometimes still ; but i did not mind that ; i saw it was his way .
so happy , so gratified did i become with this new interest added to life , that i ceased to pine after kindred : my thin crescent-destiny seemed to enlarge ; the blanks of existence were filled up ; my bodily health improved ; i gathered flesh and strength .
and was mr. rochester now ugly in my eyes ?
no , reader : gratitude , and many associations , all pleasurable and genial , made his face the object i best liked to see ; his presence in a room was more cheering than the brightest fire .
yet i had not forgotten his faults ; indeed , i could not , for he brought them frequently before me .
he was proud , sardonic , harsh to inferiority of every description : in my secret soul i knew that his great kindness to me was balanced by unjust severity to many others .
he was moody , too ; unaccountably so ; i more than once , when sent for to read to him , found him sitting in his library alone , with his head bent on his folded arms ; and , when he looked up , a morose , almost a malignant , scowl blackened his features . but i believed that his moodiness , his harshness , and his former faults of morality ( i say _ former _ , for now he seemed corrected of them ) had their source in some cruel cross of fate .
i believed he was naturally a man of better tendencies , higher principles , and purer tastes than such as circumstances had developed , education instilled , or destiny encouraged .
i thought there were excellent materials in him ; though for the present they hung together somewhat spoiled and tangled . i cannot deny that i grieved for his grief , whatever that was , and would have given much to assuage it .
though i had now extinguished my candle and was laid down in bed , i could not sleep for thinking of his look when he paused in the avenue , and told how his destiny had risen up before him , and dared him to be happy at thornfield .
" why not ? " i asked myself . " what alienates him from the house ?
will he leave it again soon ?
mrs. fairfax said he seldom stayed here longer than a fortnight at a time ; and he has now been resident eight weeks .
if he does go , the change will be doleful .
suppose he should be absent spring , summer , and autumn : how joyless sunshine and fine days will seem ! "
i hardly know whether i had slept or not after this musing ; at any rate , i started wide awake on hearing a vague murmur , peculiar and lugubrious , which sounded , i thought , just above me .
i wished i had kept my candle burning : the night was drearily dark ; my spirits were depressed . i rose and sat up in bed , listening . the sound was hushed .
i tried again to sleep ; but my heart beat anxiously : my inward tranquillity was broken .
the clock , far down in the hall , struck two .
just then it seemed my chamber-door was touched ; as if fingers had swept the panels in groping a way along the dark gallery outside . i said , " who is there ? " nothing answered .
i was chilled with fear .
all at once i remembered that it might be pilot , who , when the kitchen- door chanced to be left open , not unfrequently found his way up to the threshold of mr. rochester 's chamber : i had seen him lying there myself in the mornings .
the idea calmed me somewhat : i lay down .
silence composes the nerves ; and as an unbroken hush now reigned again through the whole house , i began to feel the return of slumber . but it was not fated that i should sleep that night .
a dream had scarcely approached my ear , when it fled affrighted , scared by a marrow-freezing incident enough .
this was a demoniac laugh--low , suppressed , and deep--uttered , as it seemed , at the very keyhole of my chamber door .
the head of my bed was near the door , and i thought at first the goblin-laugher stood at my bedside--or rather , crouched by my pillow : but i rose , looked round , and could see nothing ; while , as i still gazed , the unnatural sound was reiterated : and i knew it came from behind the panels .
my first impulse was to rise and fasten the bolt ; my next , again to cry out ,
" who is there ? "
something gurgled and moaned . ere long , steps retreated up the gallery towards the third-storey staircase : a door had lately been made to shut in that staircase ; i heard it open and close , and all was still .
" was that grace poole ? and is she possessed with a devil ? " thought i. impossible now to remain longer by myself : i must go to mrs. fairfax .
i hurried on my frock and a shawl ; i withdrew the bolt and opened the door with a trembling hand .
there was a candle burning just outside , and on the matting in the gallery .
i was surprised at this circumstance : but still more was i amazed to perceive the air quite dim , as if filled with smoke ; and , while looking to the right hand and left , to find whence these blue wreaths issued , i became further aware of a strong smell of burning .
something creaked : it was a door ajar ; and that door was mr. rochester 's , and the smoke rushed in a cloud from thence .
i thought no more of mrs. fairfax ; i thought no more of grace poole , or the laugh : in an instant , i was within the chamber .
tongues of flame darted round the bed : the curtains were on fire . in the midst of blaze and vapour , mr. rochester lay stretched motionless , in deep sleep .
" wake ! wake ! " i cried .
i shook him , but he only murmured and turned : the smoke had stupefied him .
not a moment could be lost : the very sheets were kindling , i rushed to his basin and ewer ; fortunately , one was wide and the other deep , and both were filled with water . i heaved them up , deluged the bed and its occupant , flew back to my own room , brought my own water-jug , baptized the couch afresh , and , by god 's aid , succeeded in extinguishing the flames which were devouring it .
the hiss of the quenched element , the breakage of a pitcher which i flung from my hand when i had emptied it , and , above all , the splash of the shower-bath i had liberally bestowed , roused mr. rochester at last . though it was now dark , i knew he was awake ; because i heard him fulminating strange anathemas at finding himself lying in a pool of water .
" is there a flood ? " he cried .
" no , sir , " i answered ; " but there has been a fire : get up , do ; you are quenched now ; i will fetch you a candle . "
" in the name of all the elves in christendom , is that jane eyre ? " he demanded .
" what have you done with me , witch , sorceress ?
who is in the room besides you ?
have you plotted to drown me ? "
" i will fetch you a candle , sir ; and , in heaven 's name , get up . somebody has plotted something : you cannot too soon find out who and what it is . "
i am up now ; but at your peril you fetch a candle yet : wait two minutes till i get into some dry garments , if any dry there be--yes , here is my dressing-gown . now run ! "
i did run ; i brought the candle which still remained in the gallery . he took it from my hand , held it up , and surveyed the bed , all blackened and scorched , the sheets drenched , the carpet round swimming in water .
" what is it ? and who did it ? " he asked .
i briefly related to him what had transpired : the strange laugh i had heard in the gallery : the step ascending to the third storey ; the smoke , --the smell of fire which had conducted me to his room ; in what state i had found matters there , and how i had deluged him with all the water i could lay hands on .
he listened very gravely ; his face , as i went on , expressed more concern than astonishment ; he did not immediately speak when i had concluded .
" shall i call mrs. fairfax ? " i asked .
" mrs. fairfax ?
no ; what the deuce would you call her for ?
what can she do ?
let her sleep unmolested . "
" then i will fetch leah , and wake john and his wife . "
" not at all : just be still . you have a shawl on .
if you are not warm enough , you may take my cloak yonder ; wrap it about you , and sit down in the arm-chair : there , --i will put it on . now place your feet on the stool , to keep them out of the wet . i am going to leave you a few minutes .
i shall take the candle . remain where you are till i return ; be as still as a mouse . i must pay a visit to the second storey . don 't move , remember , or call any one . "
he went : i watched the light withdraw . he passed up the gallery very softly , unclosed the staircase door with as little noise as possible , shut it after him , and the last ray vanished . i was left in total darkness .
a very long time elapsed . i grew weary : it was cold , in spite of the cloak ; and then i did not see the use of staying , as i was not to rouse the house .
i was on the point of risking mr. rochester 's displeasure by disobeying his orders , when the light once more gleamed dimly on the gallery wall , and i heard his unshod feet tread the matting .
" i hope it is he , " thought i , " and not something worse . "
he re-entered , pale and very gloomy .
" i have found it all out , " said he , setting his candle down on the washstand ; " it is as i thought . "
" how , sir ? "
he made no reply , but stood with his arms folded , looking on the ground . at the end of a few minutes he inquired in rather a peculiar tone--
" i forget whether you said you saw anything when you opened your chamber door . "
" no , sir , only the candlestick on the ground . "
" but you heard an odd laugh ? you have heard that laugh before , i should think , or something like it ? "
" yes , sir : there is a woman who sews here , called grace poole , --she laughs in that way . she is a singular person . "
" just so . grace poole--you have guessed it . she is , as you say , singular--very .
well , i shall reflect on the subject . meantime , i am glad that you are the only person , besides myself , acquainted with the precise details of to-night 's incident . you are no talking fool : say nothing about it .
i will account for this state of affairs " ( pointing to the bed ) : " and now return to your own room .
i shall do very well on the sofa in the library for the rest of the night .
it is near four : --in two hours the servants will be up . "
" good-night , then , sir , " said i , departing .
he seemed surprised--very inconsistently so , as he had just told me to go .
" what ! " he exclaimed , " are you quitting me already , and in that way ? "
" you said i might go , sir . "
" but not without taking leave ; not without a word or two of acknowledgment and good-will : not , in short , in that brief , dry fashion .
why , you have saved my life ! --snatched me from a horrible and excruciating death ! and you walk past me as if we were mutual strangers ! at least shake hands . "
he held out his hand ; i gave him mine : he took it first in one , them in both his own .
" you have saved my life : i have a pleasure in owing you so immense a debt . i cannot say more .
nothing else that has being would have been tolerable to me in the character of creditor for such an obligation : but you : it is different ; --i feel your benefits no burden , jane . "
he paused ; gazed at me : words almost visible trembled on his lips , --but his voice was checked .
" good-night again , sir . there is no debt , benefit , burden , obligation , in the case . "
" i knew , " he continued , " you would do me good in some way , at some time ; --i saw it in your eyes when i first beheld you : their expression and smile did not " -- ( again he stopped ) -- " did not " ( he proceeded hastily ) " strike delight to my very inmost heart so for nothing .
people talk of natural sympathies ; i have heard of good genii : there are grains of truth in the wildest fable .
my cherished preserver , goodnight ! "
strange energy was in his voice , strange fire in his look .
" i am glad i happened to be awake , " i said : and then i was going .
" what ! you _ will _ go ? "
" i am cold , sir . "
" cold ? yes , --and standing in a pool !
go , then , jane ; go ! " but he still retained my hand , and i could not free it .
i bethought myself of an expedient .
" i think i hear mrs. fairfax move , sir , " said i .
" well , leave me : " he relaxed his fingers , and i was gone .
i regained my couch , but never thought of sleep .
till morning dawned i was tossed on a buoyant but unquiet sea , where billows of trouble rolled under surges of joy .
i thought sometimes i saw beyond its wild waters a shore , sweet as the hills of beulah ; and now and then a freshening gale , wakened by hope , bore my spirit triumphantly towards the bourne : but i could not reach it , even in fancy--a counteracting breeze blew off land , and continually drove me back .
sense would resist delirium : judgment would warn passion . too feverish to rest , i rose as soon as day dawned .
chapter xvi
i both wished and feared to see mr. rochester on the day which followed this sleepless night : i wanted to hear his voice again , yet feared to meet his eye .
during the early part of the morning , i momentarily expected his coming ; he was not in the frequent habit of entering the schoolroom , but he did step in for a few minutes sometimes , and i had the impression that he was sure to visit it that day .
but the morning passed just as usual : nothing happened to interrupt the quiet course of adele 's studies ; only soon after breakfast , i heard some bustle in the neighbourhood of mr. rochester 's chamber , mrs. fairfax 's voice , and leah 's , and the cook 's--that is , john 's wife--and even john 's own gruff tones .
there were exclamations of " what a mercy master was not burnt in his bed ! "
" it is always dangerous to keep a candle lit at night . " " how providential that he had presence of mind to think of the water-jug ! "
" i wonder he waked nobody ! "
" it is to be hoped he will not take cold with sleeping on the library sofa , " & c .
to much confabulation succeeded a sound of scrubbing and setting to rights ; and when i passed the room , in going downstairs to dinner , i saw through the open door that all was again restored to complete order ; only the bed was stripped of its hangings . leah stood up in the window-seat , rubbing the panes of glass dimmed with smoke .
i was about to address her , for i wished to know what account had been given of the affair : but , on advancing , i saw a second person in the chamber--a woman sitting on a chair by the bedside , and sewing rings to new curtains . that woman was no other than grace poole .
there she sat , staid and taciturn-looking , as usual , in her brown stuff gown , her check apron , white handkerchief , and cap .
she was intent on her work , in which her whole thoughts seemed absorbed : on her hard forehead , and in her commonplace features , was nothing either of the paleness or desperation one would have expected to see marking the countenance of a woman who had attempted murder , and whose intended victim had followed her last night to her lair , and ( as i believed ) , charged her with the crime she wished to perpetrate .
i was amazed--confounded . she looked up , while i still gazed at her : no start , no increase or failure of colour betrayed emotion , consciousness of guilt , or fear of detection .
she said " good morning , miss , " in her usual phlegmatic and brief manner ; and taking up another ring and more tape , went on with her sewing .
" i will put her to some test , " thought i : " such absolute impenetrability is past comprehension . "
" good morning , grace , " i said .
" has anything happened here ? i thought i heard the servants all talking together a while ago . "
" only master had been reading in his bed last night ; he fell asleep with his candle lit , and the curtains got on fire ; but , fortunately , he awoke before the bed-clothes or the wood-work caught , and contrived to quench the flames with the water in the ewer . "
" a strange affair ! " i said , in a low voice : then , looking at her fixedly
-- " did mr. rochester wake nobody ? did no one hear him move ? "
she again raised her eyes to me , and this time there was something of consciousness in their expression . she seemed to examine me warily ; then she answered--
" the servants sleep so far off , you know , miss , they would not be likely to hear .
mrs. fairfax 's room and yours are the nearest to master 's ; but mrs. fairfax said she heard nothing : when people get elderly , they often sleep heavy . "
she paused , and then added , with a sort of assumed indifference , but still in a marked and significant tone-- " but you are young , miss ; and i should say a light sleeper : perhaps you may have heard a noise ? "
" i did , " said i , dropping my voice , so that leah , who was still polishing the panes , could not hear me , " and at first i thought it was pilot : but pilot cannot laugh ; and i am certain i heard a laugh , and a strange one . "
she took a new needleful of thread , waxed it carefully , threaded her needle with a steady hand , and then observed , with perfect composure--
" it is hardly likely master would laugh , i should think , miss , when he was in such danger : you must have been dreaming . "
" i was not dreaming , " i said , with some warmth , for her brazen coolness provoked me .
again she looked at me ; and with the same scrutinising and conscious eye .
" have you told master that you heard a laugh ? " she inquired .
" i have not had the opportunity of speaking to him this morning . "
" you did not think of opening your door and looking out into the gallery ? " she further asked .
she appeared to be cross-questioning me , attempting to draw from me information unawares .
the idea struck me that if she discovered i knew or suspected her guilt , she would be playing of some of her malignant pranks on me ; i thought it advisable to be on my guard .
" on the contrary , " said i , " i bolted my door . "
" then you are not in the habit of bolting your door every night before you get into bed ? "
" fiend ! she wants to know my habits , that she may lay her plans accordingly ! "
indignation again prevailed over prudence : i replied sharply , " hitherto i have often omitted to fasten the bolt : i did not think it necessary .
i was not aware any danger or annoyance was to be dreaded at thornfield hall : but in future " ( and i laid marked stress on the words ) " i shall take good care to make all secure before i venture to lie down . "
" it will be wise so to do , " was her answer : " this neighbourhood is as quiet as any i know , and i never heard of the hall being attempted by robbers since it was a house ; though there are hundreds of pounds ' worth of plate in the plate-closet , as is well known .
and you see , for such a large house , there are very few servants , because master has never lived here much ; and when he does come , being a bachelor , he needs little waiting on : but i always think it best to err on the safe side ; a door is soon fastened , and it is as well to have a drawn bolt between one and any mischief that may be about .
a deal of people , miss , are for trusting all to providence ; but i say providence will not dispense with the means , though he often blesses them when they are used discreetly . "
and here she closed her harangue : a long one for her , and uttered with the demureness of a quakeress .
i still stood absolutely dumfoundered at what appeared to me her miraculous self-possession and most inscrutable hypocrisy , when the cook entered .
" mrs. poole , " said she , addressing grace , " the servants ' dinner will soon be ready : will you come down ? "
" no ; just put my pint of porter and bit of pudding on a tray , and i 'll carry it upstairs . "
" you 'll have some meat ? "
" just a morsel , and a taste of cheese , that 's all . "
" and the sago ? " " never mind it at present : i shall be coming down before teatime : i 'll make it myself . "
the cook here turned to me , saying that mrs. fairfax was waiting for me : so i departed .
i hardly heard mrs. fairfax 's account of the curtain conflagration during dinner , so much was i occupied in puzzling my brains over the enigmatical character of grace poole , and still more in pondering the problem of her position at thornfield and questioning why she had not been given into custody that morning , or , at the very least , dismissed from her master 's service .
he had almost as much as declared his conviction of her criminality last night : what mysterious cause withheld him from accusing her ?
why had he enjoined me , too , to secrecy ?
it was strange : a bold , vindictive , and haughty gentleman seemed somehow in the power of one of the meanest of his dependants ; so much in her power , that even when she lifted her hand against his life , he dared not openly charge her with the attempt , much less punish her for it .
had grace been young and handsome , i should have been tempted to think that tenderer feelings than prudence or fear influenced mr. rochester in her behalf ; but , hard-favoured and matronly as she was , the idea could not be admitted .
" yet , " i reflected , " she has been young once ; her youth would be contemporary with her master 's : mrs. fairfax told me once , she had lived here many years . i don 't think she can ever have been pretty ; but , for aught i know , she may possess originality and strength of character to compensate for the want of personal advantages .
mr. rochester is an amateur of the decided and eccentric : grace is eccentric at least .
what if a former caprice ( a freak very possible to a nature so sudden and headstrong as his ) has delivered him into her power , and she now exercises over his actions a secret influence , the result of his own indiscretion , which he cannot shake off , and dare not disregard ? "
but , having reached this point of conjecture , mrs. poole 's square , flat figure , and uncomely , dry , even coarse face , recurred so distinctly to my mind 's eye , that i thought , " no ; impossible ! my supposition cannot be correct .
yet , " suggested the secret voice which talks to us in our own hearts , " you are not beautiful either , and perhaps mr. rochester approves you : at any rate , you have often felt as if he did ; and last night--remember his words ; remember his look ; remember his voice ! "
i well remembered all ; language , glance , and tone seemed at the moment vividly renewed .
i was now in the schoolroom ; adele was drawing ; i bent over her and directed her pencil .
she looked up with a sort of start . " qu ' avez-vous , mademoiselle ? " said she .
" vos doigts tremblent comme la feuille , et vos joues sont rouges : mais , rouges comme des cerises ! "
" i am hot , adele , with stooping ! "
she went on sketching ; i went on thinking .
i hastened to drive from my mind the hateful notion i had been conceiving respecting grace poole ; it disgusted me .
i compared myself with her , and found we were different .
bessie leaven had said i was quite a lady ; and she spoke truth--i was a lady .
and now i looked much better than i did when bessie saw me ; i had more colour and more flesh , more life , more vivacity , because i had brighter hopes and keener enjoyments .
" evening approaches , " said i , as i looked towards the window .
" i have never heard mr. rochester 's voice or step in the house to-day ; but surely i shall see him before night : i feared the meeting in the morning ; now i desire it , because expectation has been so long baffled that it is grown impatient . "
when dusk actually closed , and when adele left me to go and play in the nursery with sophie , i did most keenly desire it .
i listened for the bell to ring below ; i listened for leah coming up with a message ; i fancied sometimes i heard mr. rochester 's own tread , and i turned to the door , expecting it to open and admit him .
still it was not late ; he often sent for me at seven and eight o 'clock , and it was yet but six . surely i should not be wholly disappointed to-night , when i had so many things to say to him !
i wanted again to introduce the subject of grace poole , and to hear what he would answer ; i wanted to ask him plainly if he really believed it was she who had made last night 's hideous attempt ; and if so , why he kept her wickedness a secret .
it little mattered whether my curiosity irritated him ; i knew the pleasure of vexing and soothing him by turns ; it was one i chiefly delighted in , and a sure instinct always prevented me from going too far ; beyond the verge of provocation i never ventured ; on the extreme brink i liked well to try my skill .
retaining every minute form of respect , every propriety of my station , i could still meet him in argument without fear or uneasy restraint ; this suited both him and me .
a tread creaked on the stairs at last . leah made her appearance ; but it was only to intimate that tea was ready in mrs. fairfax 's room .
" you must want your tea , " said the good lady , as i joined her ; " you ate so little at dinner .
i am afraid , " she continued , " you are not well to- day : you look flushed and feverish . "
" oh , quite well ! i never felt better . "
" then you must prove it by evincing a good appetite ; will you fill the teapot while i knit off this needle ? "
having completed her task , she rose to draw down the blind , which she had hitherto kept up , by way , i suppose , of making the most of daylight , though dusk was now fast deepening into total obscurity .
" it is fair to-night , " said she , as she looked through the panes , " though not starlight ; mr. rochester has , on the whole , had a favourable day for his journey . " " journey ! --is mr. rochester gone anywhere ?
i did not know he was out . "
" oh , he set off the moment he had breakfasted ! he is gone to the leas , mr. eshton 's place , ten miles on the other side millcote .
i believe there is quite a party assembled there ; lord ingram , sir george lynn , colonel dent , and others . "
" do you expect him back to-night ? "
" no--nor to-morrow either ; i should think he is very likely to stay a week or more : when these fine , fashionable people get together , they are so surrounded by elegance and gaiety , so well provided with all that can please and entertain , they are in no hurry to separate .
gentlemen especially are often in request on such occasions ; and mr. rochester is so talented and so lively in society , that i believe he is a general favourite : the ladies are very fond of him ; though you would not think his appearance calculated to recommend him particularly in their eyes : but i suppose his acquirements and abilities , perhaps his wealth and good blood , make amends for any little fault of look . "
" are there ladies at the leas ? "
" there are mrs. eshton and her three daughters--very elegant young ladies indeed ; and there are the honourable blanche and mary ingram , most beautiful women , i suppose : indeed i have seen blanche , six or seven years since , when she was a girl of eighteen . she came here to a christmas ball and party mr. rochester gave .
you should have seen the dining-room that day--how richly it was decorated , how brilliantly lit up !
i should think there were fifty ladies and gentlemen present--all of the first county families ; and miss ingram was considered the belle of the evening . "
" you saw her , you say , mrs. fairfax : what was she like ? "
" yes , i saw her . the dining-room doors were thrown open ; and , as it was christmas-time , the servants were allowed to assemble in the hall , to hear some of the ladies sing and play . mr. rochester would have me to come in , and i sat down in a quiet corner and watched them .
i never saw a more splendid scene : the ladies were magnificently dressed ; most of them--at least most of the younger ones--looked handsome ; but miss ingram was certainly the queen . "
" and what was she like ? "
" tall , fine bust , sloping shoulders ; long , graceful neck : olive complexion , dark and clear ; noble features ; eyes rather like mr. rochester 's : large and black , and as brilliant as her jewels .
and then she had such a fine head of hair ; raven-black and so becomingly arranged : a crown of thick plaits behind , and in front the longest , the glossiest curls i ever saw .
she was dressed in pure white ; an amber-coloured scarf was passed over her shoulder and across her breast , tied at the side , and descending in long , fringed ends below her knee .
she wore an amber-coloured flower , too , in her hair : it contrasted well with the jetty mass of her curls . "
" she was greatly admired , of course ? "
" yes , indeed : and not only for her beauty , but for her accomplishments .
" mr. rochester ? i was not aware he could sing . "
" oh ! he has a fine bass voice , and an excellent taste for music . "
" and miss ingram : what sort of a voice had she ? "
" a very rich and powerful one : she sang delightfully ; it was a treat to listen to her ; --and she played afterwards .
i am no judge of music , but mr. rochester is ; and i heard him say her execution was remarkably good . "
" and this beautiful and accomplished lady , she is not yet married ? "
" it appears not : i fancy neither she nor her sister have very large fortunes .
" but i wonder no wealthy nobleman or gentleman has taken a fancy to her : mr. rochester , for instance . he is rich , is he not ? "
" oh ! yes . but you see there is a considerable difference in age : mr. rochester is nearly forty ; she is but twenty-five . "
" what of that ? more unequal matches are made every day . "
" true : yet i should scarcely fancy mr. rochester would entertain an idea of the sort .
but you eat nothing : you have scarcely tasted since you began tea . "
" no : i am too thirsty to eat . will you let me have another cup ? "
i was about again to revert to the probability of a union between mr. rochester and the beautiful blanche ; but adele came in , and the conversation was turned into another channel .
when once more alone , i reviewed the information i had got ; looked into my heart , examined its thoughts and feelings , and endeavoured to bring back with a strict hand such as had been straying through imagination 's boundless and trackless waste , into the safe fold of common sense .
arraigned at my own bar , memory having given her evidence of the hopes , wishes , sentiments i had been cherishing since last night--of the general state of mind in which i had indulged for nearly a fortnight past ; reason having come forward and told , in her own quiet way a plain , unvarnished tale , showing how i had rejected the real , and rabidly devoured the ideal ; --i pronounced judgment to this effect : --
that a greater fool than jane eyre had never breathed the breath of life ; that a more fantastic idiot had never surfeited herself on sweet lies , and swallowed poison as if it were nectar .
" _ you _ , " i said , " a favourite with mr. rochester ? _ you _ gifted with the power of pleasing him ? _ you _ of importance to him in any way ?
go ! your folly sickens me .
and you have derived pleasure from occasional tokens of preference--equivocal tokens shown by a gentleman of family and a man of the world to a dependent and a novice .
how dared you ?
poor stupid dupe ! --could not even self-interest make you wiser ?
you repeated to yourself this morning the brief scene of last night ? --cover your face and be ashamed !
he said something in praise of your eyes , did he ?
blind puppy !
open their bleared lids and look on your own accursed senselessness !
it does good to no woman to be flattered by her superior , who cannot possibly intend to marry her ; and it is madness in all women to let a secret love kindle within them , which , if unreturned and unknown , must devour the life that feeds it ; and , if discovered and responded to , must lead , _ ignis-fatus _ -like , into miry wilds whence there is no extrication .
" listen , then , jane eyre , to your sentence : to-morrow , place the glass before you , and draw in chalk your own picture , faithfully , without softening one defect ; omit no harsh line , smooth away no displeasing irregularity ; write under it , ' portrait of a governess , disconnected , poor , and plain . '
" afterwards , take a piece of smooth ivory--you have one prepared in your drawing-box : take your palette , mix your freshest , finest , clearest tints ; choose your most delicate camel-hair pencils ; delineate carefully the loveliest face you can imagine ; paint it in your softest shades and sweetest lines , according to the description given by mrs. fairfax of blanche ingram ; remember the raven ringlets , the oriental eye ; --what ! you revert to mr. rochester as a model ! order !
no snivel ! --no sentiment ! --no regret ! i will endure only sense and resolution .
recall the august yet harmonious lineaments , the grecian neck and bust ; let the round and dazzling arm be visible , and the delicate hand ; omit neither diamond ring nor gold bracelet ; portray faithfully the attire , aerial lace and glistening satin , graceful scarf and golden rose ; call it ' blanche , an accomplished lady of rank . '
" whenever , in future , you should chance to fancy mr. rochester thinks well of you , take out these two pictures and compare them : say , ' mr. rochester might probably win that noble lady 's love , if he chose to strive for it ; is it likely he would waste a serious thought on this indigent and insignificant plebeian ? ' "
" i 'll do it , " i resolved : and having framed this determination , i grew calm , and fell asleep .
i kept my word . an hour or two sufficed to sketch my own portrait in crayons ; and in less than a fortnight i had completed an ivory miniature of an imaginary blanche ingram . it looked a lovely face enough , and when compared with the real head in chalk , the contrast was as great as self- control could desire .
i derived benefit from the task : it had kept my head and hands employed , and had given force and fixedness to the new impressions i wished to stamp indelibly on my heart .
ere long , i had reason to congratulate myself on the course of wholesome discipline to which i had thus forced my feelings to submit .
thanks to it , i was able to meet subsequent occurrences with a decent calm , which , had they found me unprepared , i should probably have been unequal to maintain , even externally .
chapter xvii
a week passed , and no news arrived of mr. rochester : ten days , and still he did not come .
mrs. fairfax said she should not be surprised if he were to go straight from the leas to london , and thence to the continent , and not show his face again at thornfield for a year to come ; he had not unfrequently quitted it in a manner quite as abrupt and unexpected .
when i heard this , i was beginning to feel a strange chill and failing at the heart .
i was actually permitting myself to experience a sickening sense of disappointment ; but rallying my wits , and recollecting my principles , i at once called my sensations to order ; and it was wonderful how i got over the temporary blunder--how i cleared up the mistake of supposing mr. rochester 's movements a matter in which i had any cause to take a vital interest .
not that i humbled myself by a slavish notion of inferiority : on the contrary , i just said-- " you have nothing to do with the master of thornfield , further than to receive the salary he gives you for teaching his protegee , and to be grateful for such respectful and kind treatment as , if you do your duty , you have a right to expect at his hands .
be sure that is the only tie he seriously acknowledges between you and him ; so don 't make him the object of your fine feelings , your raptures , agonies , and so forth .
he is not of your order : keep to your caste , and be too self-respecting to lavish the love of the whole heart , soul , and strength , where such a gift is not wanted and would be despised . "
i went on with my day 's business tranquilly ; but ever and anon vague suggestions kept wandering across my brain of reasons why i should quit thornfield ; and i kept involuntarily framing advertisements and pondering conjectures about new situations : these thoughts i did not think to check ; they might germinate and bear fruit if they could .
mr. rochester had been absent upwards of a fortnight , when the post brought mrs. fairfax a letter .
" it is from the master , " said she , as she looked at the direction . " now i suppose we shall know whether we are to expect his return or not . "
and while she broke the seal and perused the document , i went on taking my coffee ( we were at breakfast ) : it was hot , and i attributed to that circumstance a fiery glow which suddenly rose to my face . why my hand shook , and why i involuntarily spilt half the contents of my cup into my saucer , i did not choose to consider .
" well , i sometimes think we are too quiet ; but we run a chance of being busy enough now : for a little while at least , " said mrs. fairfax , still holding the note before her spectacles .
ere i permitted myself to request an explanation , i tied the string of adele 's pinafore , which happened to be loose : having helped her also to another bun and refilled her mug with milk , i said , nonchalantly--
" mr. rochester is not likely to return soon , i suppose ? "
" indeed he is--in three days , he says : that will be next thursday ; and not alone either .
i don 't know how many of the fine people at the leas are coming with him : he sends directions for all the best bedrooms to be prepared ; and the library and drawing-rooms are to be cleaned out ; i am to get more kitchen hands from the george inn , at millcote , and from wherever else i can ; and the ladies will bring their maids and the gentlemen their valets : so we shall have a full house of it . "
and mrs. fairfax swallowed her breakfast and hastened away to commence operations .
the three days were , as she had foretold , busy enough .
i had thought all the rooms at thornfield beautifully clean and well arranged ; but it appears i was mistaken .
three women were got to help ; and such scrubbing , such brushing , such washing of paint and beating of carpets , such taking down and putting up of pictures , such polishing of mirrors and lustres , such lighting of fires in bedrooms , such airing of sheets and feather-beds on hearths , i never beheld , either before or since .
adele ran quite wild in the midst of it : the preparations for company and the prospect of their arrival , seemed to throw her into ecstasies .
she would have sophie to look over all her " toilettes , " as she called frocks ; to furbish up any that were " _ passees _ , " and to air and arrange the new . for herself , she did nothing but caper about in the front chambers , jump on and off the bedsteads , and lie on the mattresses and piled-up bolsters and pillows before the enormous fires roaring in the chimneys .
from school duties she was exonerated : mrs. fairfax had pressed me into her service , and i was all day in the storeroom , helping ( or hindering ) her and the cook ; learning to make custards and cheese-cakes and french pastry , to truss game and garnish desert-dishes .
the party were expected to arrive on thursday afternoon , in time for dinner at six .
still , now and then , i received a damping check to my cheerfulness ; and was , in spite of myself , thrown back on the region of doubts and portents , and dark conjectures . this was when i chanced to see the third-storey staircase door ( which of late had always been kept locked ) open slowly , and give passage to the form of grace poole , in prim cap , white apron , and handkerchief ; when i watched her glide along the gallery , her quiet tread muffled in a list slipper ; when i saw her look into the bustling , topsy-turvy bedrooms , --just say a word , perhaps , to the charwoman about the proper way to polish a grate , or clean a marble mantelpiece , or take stains from papered walls , and then pass on .
only one hour in the twenty-four did she pass with her fellow-servants below ; all the rest of her time was spent in some low-ceiled , oaken chamber of the second storey : there she sat and sewed--and probably laughed drearily to herself , --as companionless as a prisoner in his dungeon .
the strangest thing of all was , that not a soul in the house , except me , noticed her habits , or seemed to marvel at them : no one discussed her position or employment ; no one pitied her solitude or isolation .
i once , indeed , overheard part of a dialogue between leah and one of the charwomen , of which grace formed the subject .
leah had been saying something i had not caught , and the charwoman remarked-- " she gets good wages , i guess ? "
" yes , " said leah ; " i wish i had as good ; not that mine are to complain of , --there 's no stinginess at thornfield ; but they 're not one fifth of the sum mrs. poole receives .
and she is laying by : she goes every quarter to the bank at millcote .
i should not wonder but she has saved enough to keep her independent if she liked to leave ; but i suppose she 's got used to the place ; and then she 's not forty yet , and strong and able for anything . it is too soon for her to give up business . "
" she is a good hand , i daresay , " said the charwoman .
" ah ! --she understands what she has to do , --nobody better , " rejoined leah significantly ; " and it is not every one could fill her shoes--not for all the money she gets . "
" that it is not ! " was the reply .
" i wonder whether the master-- "
the charwoman was going on ; but here leah turned and perceived me , and she instantly gave her companion a nudge .
" doesn 't she know ? " i heard the woman whisper .
leah shook her head , and the conversation was of course dropped . all i had gathered from it amounted to this , --that there was a mystery at thornfield ; and that from participation in that mystery i was purposely excluded .
thursday came : all work had been completed the previous evening ; carpets were laid down , bed-hangings festooned , radiant white counterpanes spread , toilet tables arranged , furniture rubbed , flowers piled in vases : both chambers and saloons looked as fresh and bright as hands could make them .
the hall , too , was scoured ; and the great carved clock , as well as the steps and banisters of the staircase , were polished to the brightness of glass ; in the dining-room , the sideboard flashed resplendent with plate ; in the drawing-room and boudoir , vases of exotics bloomed on all sides .
afternoon arrived : mrs. fairfax assumed her best black satin gown , her gloves , and her gold watch ; for it was her part to receive the company , --to conduct the ladies to their rooms , & c .
adele , too , would be dressed : though i thought she had little chance of being introduced to the party that day at least .
however , to please her , i allowed sophie to apparel her in one of her short , full muslin frocks . for myself , i had no need to make any change ; i should not be called upon to quit my sanctum of the schoolroom ; for a sanctum it was now become to me , -- " a very pleasant refuge in time of trouble . "
it had been a mild , serene spring day--one of those days which , towards the end of march or the beginning of april , rise shining over the earth as heralds of summer . it was drawing to an end now ; but the evening was even warm , and i sat at work in the schoolroom with the window open .
" it gets late , " said mrs. fairfax , entering in rustling state . " i am glad i ordered dinner an hour after the time mr. rochester mentioned ; for it is past six now .
i have sent john down to the gates to see if there is anything on the road : one can see a long way from thence in the direction of millcote . "
she went to the window .
" here he is ! " said she .
" well , john " ( leaning out ) , " any news ? "
" they 're coming , ma 'am , " was the answer . " they 'll be here in ten minutes . "
adele flew to the window . i followed , taking care to stand on one side , so that , screened by the curtain , i could see without being seen .
the ten minutes john had given seemed very long , but at last wheels were heard ; four equestrians galloped up the drive , and after them came two open carriages .
fluttering veils and waving plumes filled the vehicles ; two of the cavaliers were young , dashing-looking gentlemen ; the third was mr. rochester , on his black horse , mesrour , pilot bounding before him ; at his side rode a lady , and he and she were the first of the party .
her purple riding-habit almost swept the ground , her veil streamed long on the breeze ; mingling with its transparent folds , and gleaming through them , shone rich raven ringlets .
" miss ingram ! " exclaimed mrs. fairfax , and away she hurried to her post below .
the cavalcade , following the sweep of the drive , quickly turned the angle of the house , and i lost sight of it .
adele now petitioned to go down ; but i took her on my knee , and gave her to understand that she must not on any account think of venturing in sight of the ladies , either now or at any other time , unless expressly sent for : that mr. rochester would be very angry , & c .
" some natural tears she shed " on being told this ; but as i began to look very grave , she consented at last to wipe them .
a joyous stir was now audible in the hall : gentlemen 's deep tones and ladies ' silvery accents blent harmoniously together , and distinguishable above all , though not loud , was the sonorous voice of the master of thornfield hall , welcoming his fair and gallant guests under its roof .
then light steps ascended the stairs ; and there was a tripping through the gallery , and soft cheerful laughs , and opening and closing doors , and , for a time , a hush .
" elles changent de toilettes , " said adele ; who , listening attentively , had followed every movement ; and she sighed .
" chez maman , " said she , " quand il y avait du monde , je le suivais partout , au salon et a leurs chambres ; souvent je regardais les femmes de chambre coiffer et habiller les dames , et c 'etait si amusant : comme cela on apprend . "
" don 't you feel hungry , adele ? "
" mais oui , mademoiselle : voila cinq ou six heures que nous n 'avons pas mange . "
" well now , while the ladies are in their rooms , i will venture down and get you something to eat . "
and issuing from my asylum with precaution , i sought a back-stairs which conducted directly to the kitchen .
all in that region was fire and commotion ; the soup and fish were in the last stage of projection , and the cook hung over her crucibles in a frame of mind and body threatening spontaneous combustion . in the servants ' hall two coachmen and three gentlemen 's gentlemen stood or sat round the fire ; the abigails , i suppose , were upstairs with their mistresses ; the new servants , that had been hired from millcote , were bustling about everywhere .
threading this chaos , i at last reached the larder ; there i took possession of a cold chicken , a roll of bread , some tarts , a plate or two and a knife and fork : with this booty i made a hasty retreat .
i had regained the gallery , and was just shutting the back-door behind me , when an accelerated hum warned me that the ladies were about to issue from their chambers . i could not proceed to the schoolroom without passing some of their doors , and running the risk of being surprised with my cargo of victualage ; so i stood still at this end , which , being windowless , was dark : quite dark now , for the sun was set and twilight gathering . presently the chambers gave up their fair tenants one after another : each came out gaily and airily , with dress that gleamed lustrous through the dusk . for a moment they stood grouped together at the other extremity of the gallery , conversing in a key of sweet subdued vivacity : they then descended the staircase almost as noiselessly as a bright mist rolls down a hill .
their collective appearance had left on me an impression of high- born elegance , such as i had never before received .
i found adele peeping through the schoolroom door , which she held ajar .
" what beautiful ladies ! " cried she in english . " oh , i wish i might go to them !
do you think mr. rochester will send for us by-and-bye , after dinner ? "
" no , indeed , i don 't ; mr. rochester has something else to think about . never mind the ladies to-night ; perhaps you will see them to-morrow : here is your dinner . "
she was really hungry , so the chicken and tarts served to divert her attention for a time .
it was well i secured this forage , or both she , i , and sophie , to whom i conveyed a share of our repast , would have run a chance of getting no dinner at all : every one downstairs was too much engaged to think of us .
the dessert was not carried out till after nine and at ten footmen were still running to and fro with trays and coffee- cups .
i allowed adele to sit up much later than usual ; for she declared she could not possibly go to sleep while the doors kept opening and shutting below , and people bustling about .
besides , she added , a message might possibly come from mr. rochester when she was undressed ; " et alors quel dommage ! "
i told her stories as long as she would listen to them ; and then for a change i took her out into the gallery . the hall lamp was now lit , and it amused her to look over the balustrade and watch the servants passing backwards and forwards .
when the evening was far advanced , a sound of music issued from the drawing-room , whither the piano had been removed ; adele and i sat down on the top step of the stairs to listen .
presently a voice blent with the rich tones of the instrument ; it was a lady who sang , and very sweet her notes were .
the solo over , a duet followed , and then a glee : a joyous conversational murmur filled up the intervals .
i listened long : suddenly i discovered that my ear was wholly intent on analysing the mingled sounds , and trying to discriminate amidst the confusion of accents those of mr. rochester ; and when it caught them , which it soon did , it found a further task in framing the tones , rendered by distance inarticulate , into words .
the clock struck eleven . i looked at adele , whose head leant against my shoulder ; her eyes were waxing heavy , so i took her up in my arms and carried her off to bed .
it was near one before the gentlemen and ladies sought their chambers .
the next day was as fine as its predecessor : it was devoted by the party to an excursion to some site in the neighbourhood .
they set out early in the forenoon , some on horseback , the rest in carriages ; i witnessed both the departure and the return . miss ingram , as before , was the only lady equestrian ; and , as before , mr. rochester galloped at her side ; the two rode a little apart from the rest .
i pointed out this circumstance to mrs. fairfax , who was standing at the window with me--
" you said it was not likely they should think of being married , " said i , " but you see mr. rochester evidently prefers her to any of the other ladies . "
" yes , i daresay : no doubt he admires her . "
" and she him , " i added ; " look how she leans her head towards him as if she were conversing confidentially ; i wish i could see her face ; i have never had a glimpse of it yet . "
" you will see her this evening , " answered mrs. fairfax .
" i happened to remark to mr. rochester how much adele wished to be introduced to the ladies , and he said : ' oh ! let her come into the drawing-room after dinner ; and request miss eyre to accompany her . ' "
" yes ; he said that from mere politeness : i need not go , i am sure , " i answered .
" well , i observed to him that as you were unused to company , i did not think you would like appearing before so gay a party--all strangers ; and he replied , in his quick way-- ' nonsense !
if she objects , tell her it is my particular wish ; and if she resists , say i shall come and fetch her in case of contumacy . ' "
" i will not give him that trouble , " i answered . " i will go , if no better may be ; but i don 't like it .
shall you be there , mrs. fairfax ? "
" no ; i pleaded off , and he admitted my plea .
i 'll tell you how to manage so as to avoid the embarrassment of making a formal entrance , which is the most disagreeable part of the business .
you must go into the drawing- room while it is empty , before the ladies leave the dinner-table ; choose your seat in any quiet nook you like ; you need not stay long after the gentlemen come in , unless you please : just let mr. rochester see you are there and then slip away--nobody will notice you . "
" will these people remain long , do you think ? "
" perhaps two or three weeks , certainly not more .
after the easter recess , sir george lynn , who was lately elected member for millcote , will have to go up to town and take his seat ; i daresay mr. rochester will accompany him : it surprises me that he has already made so protracted a stay at thornfield . "
it was with some trepidation that i perceived the hour approach when i was to repair with my charge to the drawing-room .
adele had been in a state of ecstasy all day , after hearing she was to be presented to the ladies in the evening ; and it was not till sophie commenced the operation of dressing her that she sobered down .
then the importance of the process quickly steadied her , and by the time she had her curls arranged in well-smoothed , drooping clusters , her pink satin frock put on , her long sash tied , and her lace mittens adjusted , she looked as grave as any judge .
no need to warn her not to disarrange her attire : when she was dressed , she sat demurely down in her little chair , taking care previously to lift up the satin skirt for fear she should crease it , and assured me she would not stir thence till i was ready .
this i quickly was : my best dress ( the silver-grey one , purchased for miss temple 's wedding , and never worn since ) was soon put on ; my hair was soon smoothed ; my sole ornament , the pearl brooch , soon assumed .
we descended . fortunately there was another entrance to the drawing-room than that through the saloon where they were all seated at dinner . we found the apartment vacant ; a large fire burning silently on the marble hearth , and wax candles shining in bright solitude , amid the exquisite flowers with which the tables were adorned .
the crimson curtain hung before the arch : slight as was the separation this drapery formed from the party in the adjoining saloon , they spoke in so low a key that nothing of their conversation could be distinguished beyond a soothing murmur .
adele , who appeared to be still under the influence of a most solemnising impression , sat down , without a word , on the footstool i pointed out to her .
i retired to a window-seat , and taking a book from a table near , endeavoured to read .
adele brought her stool to my feet ; ere long she touched my knee .
" what is it , adele ? "
" est-ce que je ne puis pas prendrie une seule de ces fleurs magnifiques , mademoiselle ? seulement pour completer ma toilette . "
" you think too much of your ' toilette , ' adele : but you may have a flower . " and i took a rose from a vase and fastened it in her sash .
she sighed a sigh of ineffable satisfaction , as if her cup of happiness were now full .
i turned my face away to conceal a smile i could not suppress : there was something ludicrous as well as painful in the little parisienne 's earnest and innate devotion to matters of dress .
a soft sound of rising now became audible ; the curtain was swept back from the arch ; through it appeared the dining-room , with its lit lustre pouring down light on the silver and glass of a magnificent dessert-service covering a long table ; a band of ladies stood in the opening ; they entered , and the curtain fell behind them .
there were but eight ; yet , somehow , as they flocked in , they gave the impression of a much larger number .
some of them were very tall ; many were dressed in white ; and all had a sweeping amplitude of array that seemed to magnify their persons as a mist magnifies the moon .
i rose and curtseyed to them : one or two bent their heads in return , the others only stared at me .
they dispersed about the room , reminding me , by the lightness and buoyancy of their movements , of a flock of white plumy birds . some of them threw themselves in half-reclining positions on the sofas and ottomans : some bent over the tables and examined the flowers and books : the rest gathered in a group round the fire : all talked in a low but clear tone which seemed habitual to them .
i knew their names afterwards , and may as well mention them now .
first , there was mrs. eshton and two of her daughters .
she had evidently been a handsome woman , and was well preserved still .
of her daughters , the eldest , amy , was rather little : naive , and child-like in face and manner , and piquant in form ; her white muslin dress and blue sash became her well .
the second , louisa , was taller and more elegant in figure ; with a very pretty face , of that order the french term _ minois chiffone _ : both sisters were fair as lilies .
lady lynn was a large and stout personage of about forty , very erect , very haughty-looking , richly dressed in a satin robe of changeful sheen : her dark hair shone glossily under the shade of an azure plume , and within the circlet of a band of gems .
mrs. colonel dent was less showy ; but , i thought , more lady-like .
she had a slight figure , a pale , gentle face , and fair hair . her black satin dress , her scarf of rich foreign lace , and her pearl ornaments , pleased me better than the rainbow radiance of the titled dame .
but the three most distinguished--partly , perhaps , because the tallest figures of the band--were the dowager lady ingram and her daughters , blanche and mary . they were all three of the loftiest stature of women .
the dowager might be between forty and fifty : her shape was still fine ; her hair ( by candle-light at least ) still black ; her teeth , too , were still apparently perfect .
most people would have termed her a splendid woman of her age : and so she was , no doubt , physically speaking ; but then there was an expression of almost insupportable haughtiness in her bearing and countenance .
she had roman features and a double chin , disappearing into a throat like a pillar : these features appeared to me not only inflated and darkened , but even furrowed with pride ; and the chin was sustained by the same principle , in a position of almost preternatural erectness .
she had , likewise , a fierce and a hard eye : it reminded me of mrs. reed 's ; she mouthed her words in speaking ; her voice was deep , its inflections very pompous , very dogmatical , --very intolerable , in short .
a crimson velvet robe , and a shawl turban of some gold-wrought indian fabric , invested her ( i suppose she thought ) with a truly imperial dignity .
blanche and mary were of equal stature , --straight and tall as poplars . mary was too slim for her height , but blanche was moulded like a dian .
i regarded her , of course , with special interest . first , i wished to see whether her appearance accorded with mrs. fairfax 's description ; secondly , whether it at all resembled the fancy miniature i had painted of her ; and thirdly--it will out ! --whether it were such as i should fancy likely to suit mr. rochester 's taste .
as far as person went , she answered point for point , both to my picture and mrs. fairfax 's description . the noble bust , the sloping shoulders , the graceful neck , the dark eyes and black ringlets were all there ; --but her face ?
her face was like her mother 's ; a youthful unfurrowed likeness : the same low brow , the same high features , the same pride . it was not , however , so saturnine a pride ! she laughed continually ; her laugh was satirical , and so was the habitual expression of her arched and haughty lip .
genius is said to be self-conscious . i cannot tell whether miss ingram was a genius , but she was self-conscious--remarkably self-conscious indeed .
she entered into a discourse on botany with the gentle mrs. dent . it seemed mrs. dent had not studied that science : though , as she said , she liked flowers , " especially wild ones ; " miss ingram had , and she ran over its vocabulary with an air .
i presently perceived she was ( what is vernacularly termed ) _ trailing _ mrs. dent ; that is , playing on her ignorance--her _ trail _ might be clever , but it was decidedly not good- natured .
she played : her execution was brilliant ; she sang : her voice was fine ; she talked french apart to her mamma ; and she talked it well , with fluency and with a good accent .
mary had a milder and more open countenance than blanche ; softer features too , and a skin some shades fairer ( miss ingram was dark as a spaniard ) --but mary was deficient in life : her face lacked expression , her eye lustre ; she had nothing to say , and having once taken her seat , remained fixed like a statue in its niche .
the sisters were both attired in spotless white .
and did i now think miss ingram such a choice as mr. rochester would be likely to make ?
i could not tell--i did not know his taste in female beauty .
if he liked the majestic , she was the very type of majesty : then she was accomplished , sprightly . most gentlemen would admire her , i thought ; and that he _ did _ admire her , i already seemed to have obtained proof : to remove the last shade of doubt , it remained but to see them together .
you are not to suppose , reader , that adele has all this time been sitting motionless on the stool at my feet : no ; when the ladies entered , she rose , advanced to meet them , made a stately reverence , and said with gravity-- " bon jour , mesdames . "
and miss ingram had looked down at her with a mocking air , and exclaimed , " oh , what a little puppet ! "
lady lynn had remarked , " it is mr. rochester 's ward , i suppose--the little french girl he was speaking of . "
mrs. dent had kindly taken her hand , and given her a kiss .
amy and louisa eshton had cried out simultaneously-- " what a love of a child ! "
and then they had called her to a sofa , where she now sat , ensconced between them , chattering alternately in french and broken english ; absorbing not only the young ladies ' attention , but that of mrs. eshton and lady lynn , and getting spoilt to her heart 's content .
at last coffee is brought in , and the gentlemen are summoned .
i sit in the shade--if any shade there be in this brilliantly-lit apartment ; the window-curtain half hides me .
again the arch yawns ; they come .
the collective appearance of the gentlemen , like that of the ladies , is very imposing : they are all costumed in black ; most of them are tall , some young .
henry and frederick lynn are very dashing sparks indeed ; and colonel dent is a fine soldierly man .
mr. eshton , the magistrate of the district , is gentleman-like : his hair is quite white , his eyebrows and whiskers still dark , which gives him something of the appearance of a " pere noble de theatre . "
lord ingram , like his sisters , is very tall ; like them , also , he is handsome ; but he shares mary 's apathetic and listless look : he seems to have more length of limb than vivacity of blood or vigour of brain .
and where is mr. rochester ?
he comes in last : i am not looking at the arch , yet i see him enter .
i try to concentrate my attention on those netting-needles , on the meshes of the purse i am forming--i wish to think only of the work i have in my hands , to see only the silver beads and silk threads that lie in my lap ; whereas , i distinctly behold his figure , and i inevitably recall the moment when i last saw it ; just after i had rendered him , what he deemed , an essential service , and he , holding my hand , and looking down on my face , surveyed me with eyes that revealed a heart full and eager to overflow ; in whose emotions i had a part .
how near had i approached him at that moment !
what had occurred since , calculated to change his and my relative positions ?
yet now , how distant , how far estranged we were ! so far estranged , that i did not expect him to come and speak to me . i did not wonder , when , without looking at me , he took a seat at the other side of the room , and began conversing with some of the ladies .
no sooner did i see that his attention was riveted on them , and that i might gaze without being observed , than my eyes were drawn involuntarily to his face ; i could not keep their lids under control : they would rise , and the irids would fix on him . i looked , and had an acute pleasure in looking , --a precious yet poignant pleasure ; pure gold , with a steely point of agony : a pleasure like what the thirst-perishing man might feel who knows the well to which he has crept is poisoned , yet stoops and drinks divine draughts nevertheless .
most true is it that " beauty is in the eye of the gazer . "
my master 's colourless , olive face , square , massive brow , broad and jetty eyebrows , deep eyes , strong features , firm , grim mouth , --all energy , decision , will , --were not beautiful , according to rule ; but they were more than beautiful to me ; they were full of an interest , an influence that quite mastered me , --that took my feelings from my own power and fettered them in his .
i had not intended to love him ; the reader knows i had wrought hard to extirpate from my soul the germs of love there detected ; and now , at the first renewed view of him , they spontaneously arrived , green and strong !
he made me love him without looking at me .
i compared him with his guests . what was the gallant grace of the lynns , the languid elegance of lord ingram , --even the military distinction of colonel dent , contrasted with his look of native pith and genuine power ?
i had no sympathy in their appearance , their expression : yet i could imagine that most observers would call them attractive , handsome , imposing ; while they would pronounce mr. rochester at once harsh-featured and melancholy-looking .
i saw them smile , laugh--it was nothing ; the light of the candles had as much soul in it as their smile ; the tinkle of the bell as much significance as their laugh .
i saw mr. rochester smile : --his stern features softened ; his eye grew both brilliant and gentle , its ray both searching and sweet .
he was talking , at the moment , to louisa and amy eshton . i wondered to see them receive with calm that look which seemed to me so penetrating : i expected their eyes to fall , their colour to rise under it ; yet i was glad when i found they were in no sense moved .
" he is not to them what he is to me , " i thought : " he is not of their kind .
did i say , a few days since , that i had nothing to do with him but to receive my salary at his hands ? did i forbid myself to think of him in any other light than as a paymaster ?
blasphemy against nature ! every good , true , vigorous feeling i have gathers impulsively round him .
i know i must conceal my sentiments : i must smother hope ; i must remember that he cannot care much for me . for when i say that i am of his kind , i do not mean that i have his force to influence , and his spell to attract ; i mean only that i have certain tastes and feelings in common with him .
i must , then , repeat continually that we are for ever sundered : --and yet , while i breathe and think , i must love him . "
coffee is handed .
the ladies , since the gentlemen entered , have become lively as larks ; conversation waxes brisk and merry .
colonel dent and mr. eshton argue on politics ; their wives listen .
the two proud dowagers , lady lynn and lady ingram , confabulate together .
sir george--whom , by-the-bye , i have forgotten to describe , --a very big , and very fresh-looking country gentleman , stands before their sofa , coffee- cup in hand , and occasionally puts in a word .
mr. frederick lynn has taken a seat beside mary ingram , and is showing her the engravings of a splendid volume : she looks , smiles now and then , but apparently says little .
the tall and phlegmatic lord ingram leans with folded arms on the chair-back of the little and lively amy eshton ; she glances up at him , and chatters like a wren : she likes him better than she does mr. rochester .
henry lynn has taken possession of an ottoman at the feet of louisa : adele shares it with him : he is trying to talk french with her , and louisa laughs at his blunders .
with whom will blanche ingram pair ?
she is standing alone at the table , bending gracefully over an album . she seems waiting to be sought ; but she will not wait too long : she herself selects a mate .
mr. rochester , having quitted the eshtons , stands on the hearth as solitary as she stands by the table : she confronts him , taking her station on the opposite side of the mantelpiece .
" mr. rochester , i thought you were not fond of children ? "
" nor am i. "
" then , what induced you to take charge of such a little doll as that ? " ( pointing to adele ) . " where did you pick her up ? " " i did not pick her up ; she was left on my hands . " " you should have sent her to school . "
" i could not afford it : schools are so dear . "
" why , i suppose you have a governess for her : i saw a person with her just now--is she gone ?
oh , no ! there she is still , behind the window- curtain .
you pay her , of course ; i should think it quite as expensive , --more so ; for you have them both to keep in addition . "
i feared--or should i say , hoped ? --the allusion to me would make mr. rochester glance my way ; and i involuntarily shrank farther into the shade : but he never turned his eyes .
" i have not considered the subject , " said he indifferently , looking straight before him . " no , you men never do consider economy and common sense .
you should hear mama on the chapter of governesses : mary and i have had , i should think , a dozen at least in our day ; half of them detestable and the rest ridiculous , and all incubi--were they not , mama ? "
" did you speak , my own ? "
the young lady thus claimed as the dowager 's special property , reiterated her question with an explanation .
" my dearest , don 't mention governesses ; the word makes me nervous .
i have suffered a martyrdom from their incompetency and caprice .
i thank heaven i have now done with them ! "
mrs. dent here bent over to the pious lady and whispered something in her ear ; i suppose , from the answer elicited , it was a reminder that one of the anathematised race was present .
" tant pis ! " said her ladyship , " i hope it may do her good ! "
then , in a lower tone , but still loud enough for me to hear , " i noticed her ; i am a judge of physiognomy , and in hers i see all the faults of her class . "
" what are they , madam ? " inquired mr. rochester aloud .
" i will tell you in your private ear , " replied she , wagging her turban three times with portentous significancy .
" but my curiosity will be past its appetite ; it craves food now . "
" ask blanche ; she is nearer you than i. "
" oh , don 't refer him to me , mama !
i have just one word to say of the whole tribe ; they are a nuisance .
not that i ever suffered much from them ; i took care to turn the tables .
what tricks theodore and i used to play on our miss wilsons , and mrs. greys , and madame jouberts ! mary was always too sleepy to join in a plot with spirit .
the best fun was with madame joubert : miss wilson was a poor sickly thing , lachrymose and low- spirited , not worth the trouble of vanquishing , in short ; and mrs. grey was coarse and insensible ; no blow took effect on her .
but poor madame joubert ! i see her yet in her raging passions , when we had driven her to extremities--spilt our tea , crumbled our bread and butter , tossed our books up to the ceiling , and played a charivari with the ruler and desk , the fender and fire-irons .
theodore , do you remember those merry days ? "
" yaas , to be sure i do , " drawled lord ingram ; " and the poor old stick used to cry out ' oh you villains childs ! ' --and then we sermonised her on the presumption of attempting to teach such clever blades as we were , when she was herself so ignorant . "
" we did ; and , tedo , you know , i helped you in prosecuting ( or persecuting ) your tutor , whey-faced mr. vining--the parson in the pip , as we used to call him .
he and miss wilson took the liberty of falling in love with each other--at least tedo and i thought so ; we surprised sundry tender glances and sighs which we interpreted as tokens of ' la belle passion , ' and i promise you the public soon had the benefit of our discovery ; we employed it as a sort of lever to hoist our dead-weights from the house .
dear mama , there , as soon as she got an inkling of the business , found out that it was of an immoral tendency . did you not , my lady-mother ? "
" certainly , my best .
and i was quite right : depend on that : there are a thousand reasons why liaisons between governesses and tutors should never be tolerated a moment in any well-regulated house ; firstly-- "
" oh , gracious , mama ! spare us the enumeration ! _ au reste _ , we all know them : danger of bad example to innocence of childhood ; distractions and consequent neglect of duty on the part of the attached--mutual alliance and reliance ; confidence thence resulting--insolence accompanying--mutiny and general blow-up .
am i right , baroness ingram , of ingram park ? " " my lily-flower , you are right now , as always . "
" then no more need be said : change the subject . "
amy eshton , not hearing or not heeding this dictum , joined in with her soft , infantine tone : " louisa and i used to quiz our governess too ; but she was such a good creature , she would bear anything : nothing put her out . she was never cross with us ; was she , louisa ? "
" no , never : we might do what we pleased ; ransack her desk and her workbox , and turn her drawers inside out ; and she was so good-natured , she would give us anything we asked for . "
" i suppose , now , " said miss ingram , curling her lip sarcastically , " we shall have an abstract of the memoirs of all the governesses extant : in order to avert such a visitation , i again move the introduction of a new topic .
mr. rochester , do you second my motion ? "
" madam , i support you on this point , as on every other . "
" then on me be the onus of bringing it forward .
signior eduardo , are you in voice to-night ? " " donna bianca , if you command it , i will be . "
" then , signior , i lay on you my sovereign behest to furbish up your lungs and other vocal organs , as they will be wanted on my royal service . "
" who would not be the rizzio of so divine a mary ? "
" it is my opinion the fiddler david must have been an insipid sort of fellow ; i like black bothwell better : to my mind a man is nothing without a spice of the devil in him ; and history may say what it will of james hepburn , but i have a notion , he was just the sort of wild , fierce , bandit hero whom i could have consented to gift with my hand . "
" gentlemen , you hear ! now which of you most resembles bothwell ? " cried mr. rochester .
" i should say the preference lies with you , " responded colonel dent .
" on my honour , i am much obliged to you , " was the reply .
miss ingram , who had now seated herself with proud grace at the piano , spreading out her snowy robes in queenly amplitude , commenced a brilliant prelude ; talking meantime .
she appeared to be on her high horse to-night ; both her words and her air seemed intended to excite not only the admiration , but the amazement of her auditors : she was evidently bent on striking them as something very dashing and daring indeed .
" oh , i am so sick of the young men of the present day ! " exclaimed she , rattling away at the instrument . " poor , puny things , not fit to stir a step beyond papa 's park gates : nor to go even so far without mama 's permission and guardianship ! creatures so absorbed in care about their pretty faces , and their white hands , and their small feet ; as if a man had anything to do with beauty ! as if loveliness were not the special prerogative of woman--her legitimate appanage and heritage !
i grant an ugly _ woman _ is a blot on the fair face of creation ; but as to the _ gentlemen _ , let them be solicitous to possess only strength and valour : let their motto be : --hunt , shoot , and fight : the rest is not worth a fillip .
such should be my device , were i a man . "
" whenever i marry , " she continued after a pause which none interrupted , " i am resolved my husband shall not be a rival , but a foil to me .
i will suffer no competitor near the throne ; i shall exact an undivided homage : his devotions shall not be shared between me and the shape he sees in his mirror .
mr. rochester , now sing , and i will play for you . "
" i am all obedience , " was the response .
" here then is a corsair-song . know that i doat on corsairs ; and for that reason , sing it _ con spirito _ . "
" commands from miss ingram 's lips would put spirit into a mug of milk and water . "
" take care , then : if you don 't please me , i will shame you by showing how such things _ should _ be done . "
" that is offering a premium on incapacity : i shall now endeavour to fail . "
" gardez-vous en bien ! if you err wilfully , i shall devise a proportionate punishment . "
" miss ingram ought to be clement , for she has it in her power to inflict a chastisement beyond mortal endurance . "
" ha ! explain ! " commanded the lady . " pardon me , madam : no need of explanation ; your own fine sense must inform you that one of your frowns would be a sufficient substitute for capital punishment . "
" sing ! " said she , and again touching the piano , she commenced an accompaniment in spirited style .
" now is my time to slip away , " thought i : but the tones that then severed the air arrested me .
mrs. fairfax had said mr. rochester possessed a fine voice : he did--a mellow , powerful bass , into which he threw his own feeling , his own force ; finding a way through the ear to the heart , and there waking sensation strangely .
i waited till the last deep and full vibration had expired--till the tide of talk , checked an instant , had resumed its flow ; i then quitted my sheltered corner and made my exit by the side-door , which was fortunately near .
thence a narrow passage led into the hall : in crossing it , i perceived my sandal was loose ; i stopped to tie it , kneeling down for that purpose on the mat at the foot of the staircase . i heard the dining-room door unclose ; a gentleman came out ; rising hastily , i stood face to face with him : it was mr. rochester .
" how do you do ? " he asked . " i am very well , sir . "
" why did you not come and speak to me in the room ? "
i thought i might have retorted the question on him who put it : but i would not take that freedom .
i answered-- " i did not wish to disturb you , as you seemed engaged , sir . "
" what have you been doing during my absence ? "
" nothing particular ; teaching adele as usual . "
" and getting a good deal paler than you were--as i saw at first sight .
what is the matter ? "
" nothing at all , sir . "
" did you take any cold that night you half drowned me ? "
" not the least . "
" return to the drawing-room : you are deserting too early . "
" i am tired , sir . "
he looked at me for a minute .
" and a little depressed , " he said . " what about ? tell me . "
" nothing--nothing , sir . i am not depressed . "
" but i affirm that you are : so much depressed that a few more words would bring tears to your eyes--indeed , they are there now , shining and swimming ; and a bead has slipped from the lash and fallen on to the flag .
if i had time , and was not in mortal dread of some prating prig of a servant passing , i would know what all this means . well , to-night i excuse you ; but understand that so long as my visitors stay , i expect you to appear in the drawing-room every evening ; it is my wish ; don 't neglect it .
now go , and send sophie for adele .
good-night , my-- " he stopped , bit his lip , and abruptly left me .
chapter xviii
merry days were these at thornfield hall ; and busy days too : how different from the first three months of stillness , monotony , and solitude i had passed beneath its roof !
all sad feelings seemed now driven from the house , all gloomy associations forgotten : there was life everywhere , movement all day long . you could not now traverse the gallery , once so hushed , nor enter the front chambers , once so tenantless , without encountering a smart lady 's-maid or a dandy valet .
the kitchen , the butler 's pantry , the servants ' hall , the entrance hall , were equally alive ; and the saloons were only left void and still when the blue sky and halcyon sunshine of the genial spring weather called their occupants out into the grounds .
even when that weather was broken , and continuous rain set in for some days , no damp seemed cast over enjoyment : indoor amusements only became more lively and varied , in consequence of the stop put to outdoor gaiety .
i wondered what they were going to do the first evening a change of entertainment was proposed : they spoke of " playing charades , " but in my ignorance i did not understand the term .
the servants were called in , the dining-room tables wheeled away , the lights otherwise disposed , the chairs placed in a semicircle opposite the arch .
while mr. rochester and the other gentlemen directed these alterations , the ladies were running up and down stairs ringing for their maids .
mrs. fairfax was summoned to give information respecting the resources of the house in shawls , dresses , draperies of any kind ; and certain wardrobes of the third storey were ransacked , and their contents , in the shape of brocaded and hooped petticoats , satin sacques , black modes , lace lappets , & c . , were brought down in armfuls by the abigails ; then a selection was made , and such things as were chosen were carried to the boudoir within the drawing-room .
meantime , mr. rochester had again summoned the ladies round him , and was selecting certain of their number to be of his party .
" miss ingram is mine , of course , " said he : afterwards he named the two misses eshton , and mrs. dent .
he looked at me : i happened to be near him , as i had been fastening the clasp of mrs. dent 's bracelet , which had got loose .
" will you play ? " he asked .
i shook my head . he did not insist , which i rather feared he would have done ; he allowed me to return quietly to my usual seat .
he and his aids now withdrew behind the curtain : the other party , which was headed by colonel dent , sat down on the crescent of chairs .
one of the gentlemen , mr. eshton , observing me , seemed to propose that i should be asked to join them ; but lady ingram instantly negatived the notion .
" no , " i heard her say : " she looks too stupid for any game of the sort . "
ere long a bell tinkled , and the curtain drew up .
within the arch , the bulky figure of sir george lynn , whom mr. rochester had likewise chosen , was seen enveloped in a white sheet : before him , on a table , lay open a large book ; and at his side stood amy eshton , draped in mr. rochester 's cloak , and holding a book in her hand .
somebody , unseen , rang the bell merrily ; then adele ( who had insisted on being one of her guardian 's party ) , bounded forward , scattering round her the contents of a basket of flowers she carried on her arm .
then appeared the magnificent figure of miss ingram , clad in white , a long veil on her head , and a wreath of roses round her brow ; by her side walked mr. rochester , and together they drew near the table . they knelt ; while mrs. dent and louisa eshton , dressed also in white , took up their stations behind them .
a ceremony followed , in dumb show , in which it was easy to recognise the pantomime of a marriage .
at its termination , colonel dent and his party consulted in whispers for two minutes , then the colonel called out--
" bride ! "
mr. rochester bowed , and the curtain fell .
a considerable interval elapsed before it again rose . its second rising displayed a more elaborately prepared scene than the last .
the drawing- room , as i have before observed , was raised two steps above the dining- room , and on the top of the upper step , placed a yard or two back within the room , appeared a large marble basin--which i recognised as an ornament of the conservatory--where it usually stood , surrounded by exotics , and tenanted by gold fish--and whence it must have been transported with some trouble , on account of its size and weight .
seated on the carpet , by the side of this basin , was seen mr. rochester , costumed in shawls , with a turban on his head .
presently advanced into view miss ingram . she , too , was attired in oriental fashion : a crimson scarf tied sash-like round the waist : an embroidered handkerchief knotted about her temples ; her beautifully-moulded arms bare , one of them upraised in the act of supporting a pitcher , poised gracefully on her head .
both her cast of form and feature , her complexion and her general air , suggested the idea of some israelitish princess of the patriarchal days ; and such was doubtless the character she intended to represent .
she approached the basin , and bent over it as if to fill her pitcher ; she again lifted it to her head .
the personage on the well-brink now seemed to accost her ; to make some request : -- " she hasted , let down her pitcher on her hand , and gave him to drink . "
from the bosom of his robe he then produced a casket , opened it and showed magnificent bracelets and earrings ; she acted astonishment and admiration ; kneeling , he laid the treasure at her feet ; incredulity and delight were expressed by her looks and gestures ; the stranger fastened the bracelets on her arms and the rings in her ears .
it was eliezer and rebecca : the camels only were wanting .
the divining party again laid their heads together : apparently they could not agree about the word or syllable the scene illustrated . colonel dent , their spokesman , demanded " the tableau of the whole ; " whereupon the curtain again descended .
on its third rising only a portion of the drawing-room was disclosed ; the rest being concealed by a screen , hung with some sort of dark and coarse drapery . the marble basin was removed ; in its place , stood a deal table and a kitchen chair : these objects were visible by a very dim light proceeding from a horn lantern , the wax candles being all extinguished .
amidst this sordid scene , sat a man with his clenched hands resting on his knees , and his eyes bent on the ground . i knew mr. rochester ; though the begrimed face , the disordered dress ( his coat hanging loose from one arm , as if it had been almost torn from his back in a scuffle ) , the desperate and scowling countenance , the rough , bristling hair might well have disguised him .
" bridewell ! " exclaimed colonel dent , and the charade was solved .
a sufficient interval having elapsed for the performers to resume their ordinary costume , they re-entered the dining-room . mr. rochester led in miss ingram ; she was complimenting him on his acting .
" do you know , " said she , " that , of the three characters , i liked you in the last best ? oh , had you but lived a few years earlier , what a gallant gentleman-highwayman you would have made ! "
" is all the soot washed from my face ? " he asked , turning it towards her .
" alas ! yes : the more 's the pity ! nothing could be more becoming to your complexion than that ruffian 's rouge . "
" you would like a hero of the road then ? "
" an english hero of the road would be the next best thing to an italian bandit ; and that could only be surpassed by a levantine pirate . "
" well , whatever i am , remember you are my wife ; we were married an hour since , in the presence of all these witnesses . "
she giggled , and her colour rose .
" now , dent , " continued mr. rochester , " it is your turn . "
and as the other party withdrew , he and his band took the vacated seats . miss ingram placed herself at her leader 's right hand ; the other diviners filled the chairs on each side of him and her .
i did not now watch the actors ; i no longer waited with interest for the curtain to rise ; my attention was absorbed by the spectators ; my eyes , erewhile fixed on the arch , were now irresistibly attracted to the semicircle of chairs .
what charade colonel dent and his party played , what word they chose , how they acquitted themselves , i no longer remember ; but i still see the consultation which followed each scene : i see mr. rochester turn to miss ingram , and miss ingram to him ; i see her incline her head towards him , till the jetty curls almost touch his shoulder and wave against his cheek ; i hear their mutual whisperings ; i recall their interchanged glances ; and something even of the feeling roused by the spectacle returns in memory at this moment .
i have told you , reader , that i had learnt to love mr. rochester : i could not unlove him now , merely because i found that he had ceased to notice me--because i might pass hours in his presence , and he would never once turn his eyes in my direction--because i saw all his attentions appropriated by a great lady , who scorned to touch me with the hem of her robes as she passed ; who , if ever her dark and imperious eye fell on me by chance , would withdraw it instantly as from an object too mean to merit observation .
i could not unlove him , because i felt sure he would soon marry this very lady--because i read daily in her a proud security in his intentions respecting her--because i witnessed hourly in him a style of courtship which , if careless and choosing rather to be sought than to seek , was yet , in its very carelessness , captivating , and in its very pride , irresistible .
there was nothing to cool or banish love in these circumstances , though much to create despair . much too , you will think , reader , to engender jealousy : if a woman , in my position , could presume to be jealous of a woman in miss ingram 's .
but i was not jealous : or very rarely ; --the nature of the pain i suffered could not be explained by that word . miss ingram was a mark beneath jealousy : she was too inferior to excite the feeling .
pardon the seeming paradox ; i mean what i say . she was very showy , but she was not genuine : she had a fine person , many brilliant attainments ; but her mind was poor , her heart barren by nature : nothing bloomed spontaneously on that soil ; no unforced natural fruit delighted by its freshness .
she was not good ; she was not original : she used to repeat sounding phrases from books : she never offered , nor had , an opinion of her own . she advocated a high tone of sentiment ; but she did not know the sensations of sympathy and pity ; tenderness and truth were not in her .
too often she betrayed this , by the undue vent she gave to a spiteful antipathy she had conceived against little adele : pushing her away with some contumelious epithet if she happened to approach her ; sometimes ordering her from the room , and always treating her with coldness and acrimony .
yes ; the future bridegroom , mr. rochester himself , exercised over his intended a ceaseless surveillance ; and it was from this sagacity--this guardedness of his--this perfect , clear consciousness of his fair one 's defects--this obvious absence of passion in his sentiments towards her , that my ever- torturing pain arose .
i saw he was going to marry her , for family , perhaps political reasons , because her rank and connections suited him ; i felt he had not given her his love , and that her qualifications were ill adapted to win from him that treasure .
this was the point--this was where the nerve was touched and teased--this was where the fever was sustained and fed : _ she could not charm him _ .
if she had managed the victory at once , and he had yielded and sincerely laid his heart at her feet , i should have covered my face , turned to the wall , and ( figuratively ) have died to them .
if miss ingram had been a good and noble woman , endowed with force , fervour , kindness , sense , i should have had one vital struggle with two tigers--jealousy and despair : then , my heart torn out and devoured , i should have admired her--acknowledged her excellence , and been quiet for the rest of my days : and the more absolute her superiority , the deeper would have been my admiration--the more truly tranquil my quiescence .
but as matters really stood , to watch miss ingram 's efforts at fascinating mr. rochester , to witness their repeated failure--herself unconscious that they did fail ; vainly fancying that each shaft launched hit the mark , and infatuatedly pluming herself on success , when her pride and self-complacency repelled further and further what she wished to allure--to witness _ this _ , was to be at once under ceaseless excitation and ruthless restraint .
because , when she failed , i saw how she might have succeeded .
arrows that continually glanced off from mr. rochester 's breast and fell harmless at his feet , might , i knew , if shot by a surer hand , have quivered keen in his proud heart--have called love into his stern eye , and softness into his sardonic face ; or , better still , without weapons a silent conquest might have been won .
" why can she not influence him more , when she is privileged to draw so near to him ? "
i asked myself . " surely she cannot truly like him , or not like him with true affection !
if she did , she need not coin her smiles so lavishly , flash her glances so unremittingly , manufacture airs so elaborate , graces so multitudinous . it seems to me that she might , by merely sitting quietly at his side , saying little and looking less , get nigher his heart .
i have seen in his face a far different expression from that which hardens it now while she is so vivaciously accosting him ; but then it came of itself : it was not elicited by meretricious arts and calculated manoeuvres ; and one had but to accept it--to answer what he asked without pretension , to address him when needful without grimace--and it increased and grew kinder and more genial , and warmed one like a fostering sunbeam . how will she manage to please him when they are married ?
i do not think she will manage it ; and yet it might be managed ; and his wife might , i verily believe , be the very happiest woman the sun shines on . "
i have not yet said anything condemnatory of mr. rochester 's project of marrying for interest and connections .
it surprised me when i first discovered that such was his intention : i had thought him a man unlikely to be influenced by motives so commonplace in his choice of a wife ; but the longer i considered the position , education , & c . , of the parties , the less i felt justified in judging and blaming either him or miss ingram for acting in conformity to ideas and principles instilled into them , doubtless , from their childhood .
all their class held these principles : i supposed , then , they had reasons for holding them such as i could not fathom .
it seemed to me that , were i a gentleman like him , i would take to my bosom only such a wife as i could love ; but the very obviousness of the advantages to the husband 's own happiness offered by this plan convinced me that there must be arguments against its general adoption of which i was quite ignorant : otherwise i felt sure all the world would act as i wished to act .
but in other points , as well as this , i was growing very lenient to my master : i was forgetting all his faults , for which i had once kept a sharp look-out .
it had formerly been my endeavour to study all sides of his character : to take the bad with the good ; and from the just weighing of both , to form an equitable judgment . now i saw no bad .
the sarcasm that had repelled , the harshness that had startled me once , were only like keen condiments in a choice dish : their presence was pungent , but their absence would be felt as comparatively insipid . and as for the vague something--was it a sinister or a sorrowful , a designing or a desponding expression ? --that opened upon a careful observer , now and then , in his eye , and closed again before one could fathom the strange depth partially disclosed ; that something which used to make me fear and shrink , as if i had been wandering amongst volcanic-looking hills , and had suddenly felt the ground quiver and seen it gape : that something , i , at intervals , beheld still ; and with throbbing heart , but not with palsied nerves .
instead of wishing to shun , i longed only to dare--to divine it ; and i thought miss ingram happy , because one day she might look into the abyss at her leisure , explore its secrets and analyse their nature .
meantime , while i thought only of my master and his future bride--saw only them , heard only their discourse , and considered only their movements of importance--the rest of the party were occupied with their own separate interests and pleasures .
the ladies lynn and ingram continued to consort in solemn conferences , where they nodded their two turbans at each other , and held up their four hands in confronting gestures of surprise , or mystery , or horror , according to the theme on which their gossip ran , like a pair of magnified puppets . mild mrs. dent talked with good-natured mrs. eshton ; and the two sometimes bestowed a courteous word or smile on me .
sir george lynn , colonel dent , and mr. eshton discussed politics , or county affairs , or justice business . lord ingram flirted with amy eshton ; louisa played and sang to and with one of the messrs. lynn ; and mary ingram listened languidly to the gallant speeches of the other .
sometimes all , as with one consent , suspended their by-play to observe and listen to the principal actors : for , after all , mr. rochester and--because closely connected with him--miss ingram were the life and soul of the party . if he was absent from the room an hour , a perceptible dulness seemed to steal over the spirits of his guests ; and his re-entrance was sure to give a fresh impulse to the vivacity of conversation .
the want of his animating influence appeared to be peculiarly felt one day that he had been summoned to millcote on business , and was not likely to return till late .
the afternoon was wet : a walk the party had proposed to take to see a gipsy camp , lately pitched on a common beyond hay , was consequently deferred . some of the gentlemen were gone to the stables : the younger ones , together with the younger ladies , were playing billiards in the billiard-room .
the dowagers ingram and lynn sought solace in a quiet game at cards . blanche ingram , after having repelled , by supercilious taciturnity , some efforts of mrs. dent and mrs. eshton to draw her into conversation , had first murmured over some sentimental tunes and airs on the piano , and then , having fetched a novel from the library , had flung herself in haughty listlessness on a sofa , and prepared to beguile , by the spell of fiction , the tedious hours of absence .
the room and the house were silent : only now and then the merriment of the billiard-players was heard from above .
it was verging on dusk , and the clock had already given warning of the hour to dress for dinner , when little adele , who knelt by me in the drawing-room window-seat , suddenly exclaimed--
" voila , monsieur rochester , qui revient ! "
i turned , and miss ingram darted forwards from her sofa : the others , too , looked up from their several occupations ; for at the same time a crunching of wheels and a splashing tramp of horse-hoofs became audible on the wet gravel . a post-chaise was approaching .
" what can possess him to come home in that style ? " said miss ingram . " he rode mesrour ( the black horse ) , did he not , when he went out ? and pilot was with him : --what has he done with the animals ? "
as she said this , she approached her tall person and ample garments so near the window , that i was obliged to bend back almost to the breaking of my spine : in her eagerness she did not observe me at first , but when she did , she curled her lip and moved to another casement .
the post-chaise stopped ; the driver rang the door-bell , and a gentleman alighted attired in travelling garb ; but it was not mr. rochester ; it was a tall , fashionable-looking man , a stranger .
" how provoking ! " exclaimed miss ingram : " you tiresome monkey ! " ( apostrophising adele ) , " who perched you up in the window to give false intelligence ? " and she cast on me an angry glance , as if i were in fault .
some parleying was audible in the hall , and soon the new-comer entered .
he bowed to lady ingram , as deeming her the eldest lady present .
" it appears i come at an inopportune time , madam , " said he , " when my friend , mr. rochester , is from home ; but i arrive from a very long journey , and i think i may presume so far on old and intimate acquaintance as to instal myself here till he returns . "
his manner was polite ; his accent , in speaking , struck me as being somewhat unusual , --not precisely foreign , but still not altogether english : his age might be about mr. rochester 's , --between thirty and forty ; his complexion was singularly sallow : otherwise he was a fine-looking man , at first sight especially .
on closer examination , you detected something in his face that displeased , or rather that failed to please . his features were regular , but too relaxed : his eye was large and well cut , but the life looking out of it was a tame , vacant life--at least so i thought . the sound of the dressing-bell dispersed the party .
it was not till after dinner that i saw him again : he then seemed quite at his ease .
but i liked his physiognomy even less than before : it struck me as being at the same time unsettled and inanimate . his eye wandered , and had no meaning in its wandering : this gave him an odd look , such as i never remembered to have seen .
for a handsome and not an unamiable-looking man , he repelled me exceedingly : there was no power in that smooth-skinned face of a full oval shape : no firmness in that aquiline nose and small cherry mouth ; there was no thought on the low , even forehead ; no command in that blank , brown eye .
as i sat in my usual nook , and looked at him with the light of the girandoles on the mantelpiece beaming full over him--for he occupied an arm-chair drawn close to the fire , and kept shrinking still nearer , as if he were cold , i compared him with mr. rochester .
i think ( with deference be it spoken ) the contrast could not be much greater between a sleek gander and a fierce falcon : between a meek sheep and the rough-coated keen-eyed dog , its guardian .
he had spoken of mr. rochester as an old friend .
a curious friendship theirs must have been : a pointed illustration , indeed , of the old adage that " extremes meet . "
two or three of the gentlemen sat near him , and i caught at times scraps of their conversation across the room .
at first i could not make much sense of what i heard ; for the discourse of louisa eshton and mary ingram , who sat nearer to me , confused the fragmentary sentences that reached me at intervals . these last were discussing the stranger ; they both called him " a beautiful man . "
louisa said he was " a love of a creature , " and she " adored him ; " and mary instanced his " pretty little mouth , and nice nose , " as her ideal of the charming . " and what a sweet-tempered forehead he has ! " cried louisa , -- " so smooth--none of those frowning irregularities i dislike so much ; and such a placid eye and smile ! "
and then , to my great relief , mr. henry lynn summoned them to the other side of the room , to settle some point about the deferred excursion to hay common .
i was now able to concentrate my attention on the group by the fire , and i presently gathered that the new-comer was called mr. mason ; then i learned that he was but just arrived in england , and that he came from some hot country : which was the reason , doubtless , his face was so sallow , and that he sat so near the hearth , and wore a surtout in the house .
presently the words jamaica , kingston , spanish town , indicated the west indies as his residence ; and it was with no little surprise i gathered , ere long , that he had there first seen and become acquainted with mr. rochester .
he spoke of his friend 's dislike of the burning heats , the hurricanes , and rainy seasons of that region .
i knew mr. rochester had been a traveller : mrs. fairfax had said so ; but i thought the continent of europe had bounded his wanderings ; till now i had never heard a hint given of visits to more distant shores .
i was pondering these things , when an incident , and a somewhat unexpected one , broke the thread of my musings .
mr. mason , shivering as some one chanced to open the door , asked for more coal to be put on the fire , which had burnt out its flame , though its mass of cinder still shone hot and red .
the footman who brought the coal , in going out , stopped near mr. eshton 's chair , and said something to him in a low voice , of which i heard only the words , " old woman , " -- " quite troublesome . "
" tell her she shall be put in the stocks if she does not take herself off , " replied the magistrate .
" no--stop ! " interrupted colonel dent . " don 't send her away , eshton ; we might turn the thing to account ; better consult the ladies . "
and speaking aloud , he continued-- " ladies , you talked of going to hay common to visit the gipsy camp ; sam here says that one of the old mother bunches is in the servants ' hall at this moment , and insists upon being brought in before ' the quality , ' to tell them their fortunes . would you like to see her ? "
" surely , colonel , " cried lady ingram , " you would not encourage such a low impostor ? dismiss her , by all means , at once ! "
" but i cannot persuade her to go away , my lady , " said the footman ; " nor can any of the servants : mrs. fairfax is with her just now , entreating her to be gone ; but she has taken a chair in the chimney-corner , and says nothing shall stir her from it till she gets leave to come in here . "
" what does she want ? " asked mrs. eshton .
" ' to tell the gentry their fortunes , ' she says , ma 'am ; and she swears she must and will do it . "
" what is she like ? " inquired the misses eshton , in a breath .
" a shockingly ugly old creature , miss ; almost as black as a crock . "
" why , she 's a real sorceress ! " cried frederick lynn . " let us have her in , of course . "
" to be sure , " rejoined his brother ; " it would be a thousand pities to throw away such a chance of fun . "
" my dear boys , what are you thinking about ? " exclaimed mrs. lynn .
" i cannot possibly countenance any such inconsistent proceeding , " chimed in the dowager ingram .
" indeed , mama , but you can--and will , " pronounced the haughty voice of blanche , as she turned round on the piano-stool ; where till now she had sat silent , apparently examining sundry sheets of music . " i have a curiosity to hear my fortune told : therefore , sam , order the beldame forward . "
" my darling blanche ! recollect-- "
" i do--i recollect all you can suggest ; and i must have my will--quick , sam ! "
" yes--yes--yes ! " cried all the juveniles , both ladies and gentlemen . " let her come--it will be excellent sport ! "
the footman still lingered .
" she looks such a rough one , " said he .
" go ! " ejaculated miss ingram , and the man went .
excitement instantly seized the whole party : a running fire of raillery and jests was proceeding when sam returned .
" she won 't come now , " said he . " she says it 's not her mission to appear before the ' vulgar herd ' ( them 's her words ) .
i must show her into a room by herself , and then those who wish to consult her must go to her one by one . "
" you see now , my queenly blanche , " began lady ingram , " she encroaches . be advised , my angel girl--and-- "
" show her into the library , of course , " cut in the " angel girl . "
" it is not my mission to listen to her before the vulgar herd either : i mean to have her all to myself .
is there a fire in the library ? "
" yes , ma 'am--but she looks such a tinkler . "
" cease that chatter , blockhead ! and do my bidding . "
again sam vanished ; and mystery , animation , expectation rose to full flow once more .
" she 's ready now , " said the footman , as he reappeared . " she wishes to know who will be her first visitor . "
" i think i had better just look in upon her before any of the ladies go , " said colonel dent . " tell her , sam , a gentleman is coming . "
sam went and returned .
" she says , sir , that she 'll have no gentlemen ; they need not trouble themselves to come near her ; nor , " he added , with difficulty suppressing a titter , " any ladies either , except the young , and single . "
" by jove , she has taste ! " exclaimed henry lynn .
miss ingram rose solemnly : " i go first , " she said , in a tone which might have befitted the leader of a forlorn hope , mounting a breach in the van of his men .
" oh , my best ! oh , my dearest ! pause--reflect ! " was her mama 's cry ; but she swept past her in stately silence , passed through the door which colonel dent held open , and we heard her enter the library . a comparative silence ensued .
lady ingram thought it " le cas " to wring her hands : which she did accordingly . miss mary declared she felt , for her part , she never dared venture . amy and louisa eshton tittered under their breath , and looked a little frightened .
the minutes passed very slowly : fifteen were counted before the library- door again opened .
would she laugh ?
would she take it as a joke ?
all eyes met her with a glance of eager curiosity , and she met all eyes with one of rebuff and coldness ; she looked neither flurried nor merry : she walked stiffly to her seat , and took it in silence .
" well , blanche ? " said lord ingram .
" what did she say , sister ? " asked mary .
" what did you think ?
how do you feel ? --is she a real fortune-teller ? " demanded the misses eshton .
" now , now , good people , " returned miss ingram , " don 't press upon me .
really your organs of wonder and credulity are easily excited : you seem , by the importance of you all--my good mama included--ascribe to this matter , absolutely to believe we have a genuine witch in the house , who is in close alliance with the old gentleman .
i have seen a gipsy vagabond ; she has practised in hackneyed fashion the science of palmistry and told me what such people usually tell . my whim is gratified ; and now i think mr. eshton will do well to put the hag in the stocks to-morrow morning , as he threatened . "
miss ingram took a book , leant back in her chair , and so declined further conversation .
i watched her for nearly half-an-hour : during all that time she never turned a page , and her face grew momently darker , more dissatisfied , and more sourly expressive of disappointment .
she had obviously not heard anything to her advantage : and it seemed to me , from her prolonged fit of gloom and taciturnity , that she herself , notwithstanding her professed indifference , attached undue importance to whatever revelations had been made her .
{ during all that time she never turned a page : p184.jpg } meantime , mary ingram , amy and louisa eshton , declared they dared not go alone ; and yet they all wished to go .
a negotiation was opened through the medium of the ambassador , sam ; and after much pacing to and fro , till , i think , the said sam 's calves must have ached with the exercise , permission was at last , with great difficulty , extorted from the rigorous sibyl , for the three to wait upon her in a body .
their visit was not so still as miss ingram 's had been : we heard hysterical giggling and little shrieks proceeding from the library ; and at the end of about twenty minutes they burst the door open , and came running across the hall , as if they were half-scared out of their wits . " i am sure she is something not right ! " they cried , one and all .
" she told us such things ! she knows all about us ! " and they sank breathless into the various seats the gentlemen hastened to bring them .
pressed for further explanation , they declared she had told them of things they had said and done when they were mere children ; described books and ornaments they had in their boudoirs at home : keepsakes that different relations had presented to them .
they affirmed that she had even divined their thoughts , and had whispered in the ear of each the name of the person she liked best in the world , and informed them of what they most wished for . here the gentlemen interposed with earnest petitions to be further enlightened on these two last-named points ; but they got only blushes , ejaculations , tremors , and titters , in return for their importunity .
the matrons , meantime , offered vinaigrettes and wielded fans ; and again and again reiterated the expression of their concern that their warning had not been taken in time ; and the elder gentlemen laughed , and the younger urged their services on the agitated fair ones .
in the midst of the tumult , and while my eyes and ears were fully engaged in the scene before me , i heard a hem close at my elbow : i turned , and saw sam .
" if you please , miss , the gipsy declares that there is another young single lady in the room who has not been to her yet , and she swears she will not go till she has seen all .
i thought it must be you : there is no one else for it .
what shall i tell her ? "
" oh , i will go by all means , " i answered : and i was glad of the unexpected opportunity to gratify my much-excited curiosity .
i slipped out of the room , unobserved by any eye--for the company were gathered in one mass about the trembling trio just returned--and i closed the door quietly behind me .
" if you like , miss , " said sam , " i 'll wait in the hall for you ; and if she frightens you , just call and i 'll come in . "
" no , sam , return to the kitchen : i am not in the least afraid . "
nor was i ; but i was a good deal interested and excited .
chapter xix
the library looked tranquil enough as i entered it , and the sibyl--if sibyl she were--was seated snugly enough in an easy-chair at the chimney- corner . she had on a red cloak and a black bonnet : or rather , a broad- brimmed gipsy hat , tied down with a striped handkerchief under her chin .
an extinguished candle stood on the table ; she was bending over the fire , and seemed reading in a little black book , like a prayer-book , by the light of the blaze : she muttered the words to herself , as most old women do , while she read ; she did not desist immediately on my entrance : it appeared she wished to finish a paragraph .
i stood on the rug and warmed my hands , which were rather cold with sitting at a distance from the drawing-room fire .
i felt now as composed as ever i did in my life : there was nothing indeed in the gipsy 's appearance to trouble one 's calm .
she shut her book and slowly looked up ; her hat-brim partially shaded her face , yet i could see , as she raised it , that it was a strange one . it looked all brown and black : elf- locks bristled out from beneath a white band which passed under her chin , and came half over her cheeks , or rather jaws : her eye confronted me at once , with a bold and direct gaze .
" well , and you want your fortune told ? " she said , in a voice as decided as her glance , as harsh as her features .
" i don 't care about it , mother ; you may please yourself : but i ought to warn you , i have no faith . "
" it 's like your impudence to say so : i expected it of you ; i heard it in your step as you crossed the threshold . "
" did you ? you 've a quick ear . "
" i have ; and a quick eye and a quick brain . "
" you need them all in your trade . "
" i do ; especially when i 've customers like you to deal with . why don 't you tremble ? "
" i 'm not cold . "
" why don 't you turn pale ? "
" i am not sick . "
" why don 't you consult my art ? "
" i 'm not silly . "
the old crone " nichered " a laugh under her bonnet and bandage ; she then drew out a short black pipe , and lighting it began to smoke . having indulged a while in this sedative , she raised her bent body , took the pipe from her lips , and while gazing steadily at the fire , said very deliberately-- " you are cold ; you are sick ; and you are silly . "
" prove it , " i rejoined .
" i will , in few words . you are cold , because you are alone : no contact strikes the fire from you that is in you . you are sick ; because the best of feelings , the highest and the sweetest given to man , keeps far away from you . you are silly , because , suffer as you may , you will not beckon it to approach , nor will you stir one step to meet it where it waits you . "
she again put her short black pipe to her lips , and renewed her smoking with vigour .
" you might say all that to almost any one who you knew lived as a solitary dependent in a great house . "
" i might say it to almost any one : but would it be true of almost any one ? "
" in my circumstances . "
" yes ; just so , in _ your _ circumstances : but find me another precisely placed as you are . "
" it would be easy to find you thousands . "
" you could scarcely find me one .
if you knew it , you are peculiarly situated : very near happiness ; yes , within reach of it . the materials are all prepared ; there only wants a movement to combine them . chance laid them somewhat apart ; let them be once approached and bliss results . "
" i don 't understand enigmas .
i never could guess a riddle in my life . "
" if you wish me to speak more plainly , show me your palm . "
" and i must cross it with silver , i suppose ? "
" to be sure . "
i gave her a shilling : she put it into an old stocking-foot which she took out of her pocket , and having tied it round and returned it , she told me to hold out my hand .
i did . she approached her face to the palm , and pored over it without touching it .
" it is too fine , " said she . " i can make nothing of such a hand as that ; almost without lines : besides , what is in a palm ? destiny is not written there . "
" i believe you , " said i .
" no , " she continued , " it is in the face : on the forehead , about the eyes , in the lines of the mouth . kneel , and lift up your head . "
" ah ! now you are coming to reality , " i said , as i obeyed her . " i shall begin to put some faith in you presently . "
i knelt within half a yard of her . she stirred the fire , so that a ripple of light broke from the disturbed coal : the glare , however , as she sat , only threw her face into deeper shadow : mine , it illumined .
" i wonder with what feelings you came to me to-night , " she said , when she had examined me a while . " i wonder what thoughts are busy in your heart during all the hours you sit in yonder room with the fine people flitting before you like shapes in a magic-lantern : just as little sympathetic communion passing between you and them as if they were really mere shadows of human forms , and not the actual substance . "
" i feel tired often , sleepy sometimes , but seldom sad . "
" then you have some secret hope to buoy you up and please you with whispers of the future ? "
" not i. the utmost i hope is , to save money enough out of my earnings to set up a school some day in a little house rented by myself . "
" a mean nutriment for the spirit to exist on : and sitting in that window- seat ( you see i know your habits ) -- " " you have learned them from the servants . "
" ah ! you think yourself sharp .
well , perhaps i have : to speak truth , i have an acquaintance with one of them , mrs. poole-- "
i started to my feet when i heard the name .
" you have--have you ? " thought i ; " there is diablerie in the business after all , then ! "
" don 't be alarmed , " continued the strange being ; " she 's a safe hand is mrs. poole : close and quiet ; any one may repose confidence in her .
but , as i was saying : sitting in that window-seat , do you think of nothing but your future school ?
have you no present interest in any of the company who occupy the sofas and chairs before you ?
is there not one face you study ? one figure whose movements you follow with at least curiosity ? "
" i like to observe all the faces and all the figures . "
" but do you never single one from the rest--or it may be , two ? "
" i do frequently ; when the gestures or looks of a pair seem telling a tale : it amuses me to watch them . "
" what tale do you like best to hear ? "
" oh , i have not much choice ! they generally run on the same theme--courtship ; and promise to end in the same catastrophe--marriage . "
" and do you like that monotonous theme ? "
" positively , i don 't care about it : it is nothing to me . "
" nothing to you ?
when a lady , young and full of life and health , charming with beauty and endowed with the gifts of rank and fortune , sits and smiles in the eyes of a gentleman you-- "
" i what ? "
" you know--and perhaps think well of . "
" i don 't know the gentlemen here . i have scarcely interchanged a syllable with one of them ; and as to thinking well of them , i consider some respectable , and stately , and middle-aged , and others young , dashing , handsome , and lively : but certainly they are all at liberty to be the recipients of whose smiles they please , without my feeling disposed to consider the transaction of any moment to me . "
" you don 't know the gentlemen here ?
you have not exchanged a syllable with one of them ?
will you say that of the master of the house ! "
" he is not at home . "
" a profound remark ! a most ingenious quibble ! he went to millcote this morning , and will be back here to-night or to-morrow : does that circumstance exclude him from the list of your acquaintance--blot him , as it were , out of existence ? "
" no ; but i can scarcely see what mr. rochester has to do with the theme you had introduced . "
" i was talking of ladies smiling in the eyes of gentlemen ; and of late so many smiles have been shed into mr. rochester 's eyes that they overflow like two cups filled above the brim : have you never remarked that ? "
" mr. rochester has a right to enjoy the society of his guests . "
" no question about his right : but have you never observed that , of all the tales told here about matrimony , mr. rochester has been favoured with the most lively and the most continuous ? "
" the eagerness of a listener quickens the tongue of a narrator . "
i said this rather to myself than to the gipsy , whose strange talk , voice , manner , had by this time wrapped me in a kind of dream .
one unexpected sentence came from her lips after another , till i got involved in a web of mystification ; and wondered what unseen spirit had been sitting for weeks by my heart watching its workings and taking record of every pulse .
" eagerness of a listener ! " repeated she : " yes ; mr. rochester has sat by the hour , his ear inclined to the fascinating lips that took such delight in their task of communicating ; and mr. rochester was so willing to receive and looked so grateful for the pastime given him ; you have noticed this ? "
" grateful !
i cannot remember detecting gratitude in his face . "
" detecting ! you have analysed , then . and what did you detect , if not gratitude ? "
i said nothing .
" you have seen love : have you not ? --and , looking forward , you have seen him married , and beheld his bride happy ? "
" humph ! not exactly . your witch 's skill is rather at fault sometimes . "
" what the devil have you seen , then ? "
" never mind : i came here to inquire , not to confess . is it known that mr. rochester is to be married ? "
" yes ; and to the beautiful miss ingram . "
" shortly ? "
" appearances would warrant that conclusion : and , no doubt ( though , with an audacity that wants chastising out of you , you seem to question it ) , they will be a superlatively happy pair . he must love such a handsome , noble , witty , accomplished lady ; and probably she loves him , or , if not his person , at least his purse .
i know she considers the rochester estate eligible to the last degree ; though ( god pardon me ! ) i told her something on that point about an hour ago which made her look wondrous grave : the corners of her mouth fell half an inch .
i would advise her blackaviced suitor to look out : if another comes , with a longer or clearer rent-roll , --he 's dished-- "
" but , mother , i did not come to hear mr. rochester 's fortune : i came to hear my own ; and you have told me nothing of it . "
" your fortune is yet doubtful : when i examined your face , one trait contradicted another .
chance has meted you a measure of happiness : that i know . i knew it before i came here this evening . she has laid it carefully on one side for you . i saw her do it .
it depends on yourself to stretch out your hand , and take it up : but whether you will do so , is the problem i study .
kneel again on the rug . "
" don 't keep me long ; the fire scorches me . "
i knelt .
she did not stoop towards me , but only gazed , leaning back in her chair . she began muttering , --
" the flame flickers in the eye ; the eye shines like dew ; it looks soft and full of feeling ; it smiles at my jargon : it is susceptible ; impression follows impression through its clear sphere ; where it ceases to smile , it is sad ; an unconscious lassitude weighs on the lid : that signifies melancholy resulting from loneliness . it turns from me ; it will not suffer further scrutiny ; it seems to deny , by a mocking glance , the truth of the discoveries i have already made , --to disown the charge both of sensibility and chagrin : its pride and reserve only confirm me in my opinion .
the eye is favourable .
" as to the mouth , it delights at times in laughter ; it is disposed to impart all that the brain conceives ; though i daresay it would be silent on much the heart experiences . mobile and flexible , it was never intended to be compressed in the eternal silence of solitude : it is a mouth which should speak much and smile often , and have human affection for its interlocutor .
that feature too is propitious .
" i see no enemy to a fortunate issue but in the brow ; and that brow professes to say , -- ' i can live alone , if self-respect , and circumstances require me so to do . i need not sell my soul to buy bliss . i have an inward treasure born with me , which can keep me alive if all extraneous delights should be withheld , or offered only at a price i cannot afford to give . ' the forehead declares , ' reason sits firm and holds the reins , and she will not let the feelings burst away and hurry her to wild chasms . the passions may rage furiously , like true heathens , as they are ; and the desires may imagine all sorts of vain things : but judgment shall still have the last word in every argument , and the casting vote in every decision .
strong wind , earthquake-shock , and fire may pass by : but i shall follow the guiding of that still small voice which interprets the dictates of conscience . '
" well said , forehead ; your declaration shall be respected . i have formed my plans--right plans i deem them--and in them i have attended to the claims of conscience , the counsels of reason .
i know how soon youth would fade and bloom perish , if , in the cup of bliss offered , but one dreg of shame , or one flavour of remorse were detected ; and i do not want sacrifice , sorrow , dissolution--such is not my taste .
i wish to foster , not to blight--to earn gratitude , not to wring tears of blood--no , nor of brine : my harvest must be in smiles , in endearments , in sweet--that will do .
i think i rave in a kind of exquisite delirium .
i should wish now to protract this moment _ ad infinitum _ ; but i dare not .
so far i have governed myself thoroughly . i have acted as i inwardly swore i would act ; but further might try me beyond my strength .
rise , miss eyre : leave me ; the play is played out ' . "
where was i ? did i wake or sleep ?
had i been dreaming ? did i dream still ?
the old woman 's voice had changed : her accent , her gesture , and all were familiar to me as my own face in a glass--as the speech of my own tongue . i got up , but did not go .
i looked ; i stirred the fire , and i looked again : but she drew her bonnet and her bandage closer about her face , and again beckoned me to depart . the flame illuminated her hand stretched out : roused now , and on the alert for discoveries , i at once noticed that hand .
it was no more the withered limb of eld than my own ; it was a rounded supple member , with smooth fingers , symmetrically turned ; a broad ring flashed on the little finger , and stooping forward , i looked at it , and saw a gem i had seen a hundred times before .
" well , jane , do you know me ? " asked the familiar voice .
" only take off the red cloak , sir , and then-- "
" but the string is in a knot--help me . "
" break it , sir . "
" there , then-- ' off , ye lendings ! ' " and mr. rochester stepped out of his disguise .
" now , sir , what a strange idea ! "
" but well carried out , eh ? don 't you think so ? "
" with the ladies you must have managed well . "
" but not with you ? "
" you did not act the character of a gipsy with me . "
" what character did i act ? my own ? "
" no ; some unaccountable one . in short , i believe you have been trying to draw me out--or in ; you have been talking nonsense to make me talk nonsense . it is scarcely fair , sir . "
" do you forgive me , jane ? "
" i cannot tell till i have thought it all over . if , on reflection , i find i have fallen into no great absurdity , i shall try to forgive you ; but it was not right . "
" oh , you have been very correct--very careful , very sensible . "
i reflected , and thought , on the whole , i had . it was a comfort ; but , indeed , i had been on my guard almost from the beginning of the interview . something of masquerade i suspected . i knew gipsies and fortune-tellers did not express themselves as this seeming old woman had expressed herself ; besides i had noted her feigned voice , her anxiety to conceal her features . but my mind had been running on grace poole--that living enigma , that mystery of mysteries , as i considered her . i had never thought of mr. rochester .
" well , " said he , " what are you musing about ?
what does that grave smile signify ? "
" wonder and self-congratulation , sir . i have your permission to retire now , i suppose ? "
" no ; stay a moment ; and tell me what the people in the drawing-room yonder are doing . "
" discussing the gipsy , i daresay . "
" sit down ! --let me hear what they said about me . "
" i had better not stay long , sir ; it must be near eleven o 'clock . oh , are you aware , mr. rochester , that a stranger has arrived here since you left this morning ? "
" a stranger ! --no ; who can it be ?
i expected no one ; is he gone ? "
" no ; he said he had known you long , and that he could take the liberty of installing himself here till you returned . " " the devil he did !
did he give his name ? "
" his name is mason , sir ; and he comes from the west indies ; from spanish town , in jamaica , i think . "
mr. rochester was standing near me ; he had taken my hand , as if to lead me to a chair . as i spoke he gave my wrist a convulsive grip ; the smile on his lips froze : apparently a spasm caught his breath .
" mason ! --the west indies ! " he said , in the tone one might fancy a speaking automaton to enounce its single words ; " mason ! --the west indies ! " he reiterated ; and he went over the syllables three times , growing , in the intervals of speaking , whiter than ashes : he hardly seemed to know what he was doing .
" do you feel ill , sir ? " i inquired .
" jane , i 've got a blow ; i 've got a blow , jane ! " he staggered .
" oh , lean on me , sir . "
" jane , you offered me your shoulder once before ; let me have it now . "
" yes , sir , yes ; and my arm . "
he sat down , and made me sit beside him . holding my hand in both his own , he chafed it ; gazing on me , at the same time , with the most troubled and dreary look .
" my little friend ! " said he , " i wish i were in a quiet island with only you ; and trouble , and danger , and hideous recollections removed from me . "
" can i help you , sir ? --i 'd give my life to serve you . "
" jane , if aid is wanted , i 'll seek it at your hands ; i promise you that . "
" thank you , sir . tell me what to do , --i 'll try , at least , to do it . "
" fetch me now , jane , a glass of wine from the dining-room : they will be at supper there ; and tell me if mason is with them , and what he is doing . "
i went .
i found all the party in the dining-room at supper , as mr. rochester had said ; they were not seated at table , --the supper was arranged on the sideboard ; each had taken what he chose , and they stood about here and there in groups , their plates and glasses in their hands .
every one seemed in high glee ; laughter and conversation were general and animated .
mr. mason stood near the fire , talking to colonel and mrs. dent , and appeared as merry as any of them .
i filled a wine-glass ( i saw miss ingram watch me frowningly as i did so : she thought i was taking a liberty , i daresay ) , and i returned to the library .
mr. rochester 's extreme pallor had disappeared , and he looked once more firm and stern . he took the glass from my hand .
" here is to your health , ministrant spirit ! " he said .
he swallowed the contents and returned it to me .
" what are they doing , jane ? "
" laughing and talking , sir . "
" they don 't look grave and mysterious , as if they had heard something strange ? "
" not at all : they are full of jests and gaiety . "
" and mason ? "
" he was laughing too . "
" if all these people came in a body and spat at me , what would you do , jane ? "
" turn them out of the room , sir , if i could . "
he half smiled .
" but if i were to go to them , and they only looked at me coldly , and whispered sneeringly amongst each other , and then dropped off and left me one by one , what then ? would you go with them ? "
" i rather think not , sir : i should have more pleasure in staying with you . "
" to comfort me ? "
" yes , sir , to comfort you , as well as i could . "
" and if they laid you under a ban for adhering to me ? "
" i , probably , should know nothing about their ban ; and if i did , i should care nothing about it . "
" then , you could dare censure for my sake ? "
" i could dare it for the sake of any friend who deserved my adherence ; as you , i am sure , do . "
" go back now into the room ; step quietly up to mason , and whisper in his ear that mr. rochester is come and wishes to see him : show him in here and then leave me . " " yes , sir . "
i did his behest .
the company all stared at me as i passed straight among them . i sought mr. mason , delivered the message , and preceded him from the room : i ushered him into the library , and then i went upstairs .
at a late hour , after i had been in bed some time , i heard the visitors repair to their chambers : i distinguished mr. rochester 's voice , and heard him say , " this way , mason ; this is your room . "
he spoke cheerfully : the gay tones set my heart at ease . i was soon asleep .
chapter xx
i had forgotten to draw my curtain , which i usually did , and also to let down my window-blind . the consequence was , that when the moon , which was full and bright ( for the night was fine ) , came in her course to that space in the sky opposite my casement , and looked in at me through the unveiled panes , her glorious gaze roused me .
awaking in the dead of night , i opened my eyes on her disk--silver-white and crystal clear . it was beautiful , but too solemn ; i half rose , and stretched my arm to draw the curtain .
good god ! what a cry !
the night--its silence--its rest , was rent in twain by a savage , a sharp , a shrilly sound that ran from end to end of thornfield hall .
my pulse stopped : my heart stood still ; my stretched arm was paralysed .
the cry died , and was not renewed . indeed , whatever being uttered that fearful shriek could not soon repeat it : not the widest-winged condor on the andes could , twice in succession , send out such a yell from the cloud shrouding his eyrie . the thing delivering such utterance must rest ere it could repeat the effort .
it came out of the third storey ; for it passed overhead .
and overhead--yes , in the room just above my chamber-ceiling--i now heard a struggle : a deadly one it seemed from the noise ; and a half-smothered voice shouted--
" help ! help ! help ! " three times rapidly .
" will no one come ? " it cried ; and then , while the staggering and stamping went on wildly , i distinguished through plank and plaster : -- " rochester ! rochester ! for god 's sake , come ! "
a chamber-door opened : some one ran , or rushed , along the gallery . another step stamped on the flooring above and something fell ; and there was silence .
i had put on some clothes , though horror shook all my limbs ; i issued from my apartment .
the sleepers were all aroused : ejaculations , terrified murmurs sounded in every room ; door after door unclosed ; one looked out and another looked out ; the gallery filled .
gentlemen and ladies alike had quitted their beds ; and " oh ! what is it ? " -- " who is hurt ? " -- " what has happened ? " -- " fetch a light ! " -- " is it fire ? " -- " are there robbers ? " -- " where shall we run ? " was demanded confusedly on all hands .
but for the moonlight they would have been in complete darkness . they ran to and fro ; they crowded together : some sobbed , some stumbled : the confusion was inextricable .
" where the devil is rochester ? " cried colonel dent .
" be composed , all of you : i 'm coming . "
and the door at the end of the gallery opened , and mr. rochester advanced with a candle : he had just descended from the upper storey . one of the ladies ran to him directly ; she seized his arm : it was miss ingram .
" speak ! let us know the worst at once ! "
" but don 't pull me down or strangle me , " he replied : for the misses eshton were clinging about him now ; and the two dowagers , in vast white wrappers , were bearing down on him like ships in full sail .
" all 's right ! --all 's right ! " he cried . " it 's a mere rehearsal of much ado about nothing . ladies , keep off , or i shall wax dangerous . "
and dangerous he looked : his black eyes darted sparks . calming himself by an effort , he added--
" a servant has had the nightmare ; that is all . she 's an excitable , nervous person : she construed her dream into an apparition , or something of that sort , no doubt ; and has taken a fit with fright .
now , then , i must see you all back into your rooms ; for , till the house is settled , she cannot be looked after .
gentlemen , have the goodness to set the ladies the example . miss ingram , i am sure you will not fail in evincing superiority to idle terrors . amy and louisa , return to your nests like a pair of doves , as you are . mesdames " ( to the dowagers ) , " you will take cold to a dead certainty , if you stay in this chill gallery any longer . "
and so , by dint of alternate coaxing and commanding , he contrived to get them all once more enclosed in their separate dormitories .
i did not wait to be ordered back to mine , but retreated unnoticed , as unnoticed i had left it .
not , however , to go to bed : on the contrary , i began and dressed myself carefully .
the sounds i had heard after the scream , and the words that had been uttered , had probably been heard only by me ; for they had proceeded from the room above mine : but they assured me that it was not a servant 's dream which had thus struck horror through the house ; and that the explanation mr. rochester had given was merely an invention framed to pacify his guests .
i dressed , then , to be ready for emergencies . when dressed , i sat a long time by the window looking out over the silent grounds and silvered fields and waiting for i knew not what .
it seemed to me that some event must follow the strange cry , struggle , and call .
no : stillness returned : each murmur and movement ceased gradually , and in about an hour thornfield hall was again as hushed as a desert . it seemed that sleep and night had resumed their empire .
meantime the moon declined : she was about to set . not liking to sit in the cold and darkness , i thought i would lie down on my bed , dressed as i was . i left the window , and moved with little noise across the carpet ; as i stooped to take off my shoes , a cautious hand tapped low at the door .
" am i wanted ? " i asked .
" are you up ? " asked the voice i expected to hear , viz . , my master 's .
" yes , sir . "
" and dressed ? "
" yes . "
" come out , then , quietly . "
i obeyed .
mr. rochester stood in the gallery holding a light .
" i want you , " he said : " come this way : take your time , and make no noise . "
my slippers were thin : i could walk the matted floor as softly as a cat .
he glided up the gallery and up the stairs , and stopped in the dark , low corridor of the fateful third storey : i had followed and stood at his side .
" have you a sponge in your room ? " he asked in a whisper .
" yes , sir . "
" have you any salts--volatile salts ? "
" yes . "
" go back and fetch both . "
i returned , sought the sponge on the washstand , the salts in my drawer , and once more retraced my steps .
he still waited ; he held a key in his hand : approaching one of the small , black doors , he put it in the lock ; he paused , and addressed me again .
" you don 't turn sick at the sight of blood ? "
" i think i shall not : i have never been tried yet . "
i felt a thrill while i answered him ; but no coldness , and no faintness .
" just give me your hand , " he said : " it will not do to risk a fainting fit . "
i put my fingers into his .
" warm and steady , " was his remark : he turned the key and opened the door .
i saw a room i remembered to have seen before , the day mrs. fairfax showed me over the house : it was hung with tapestry ; but the tapestry was now looped up in one part , and there was a door apparent , which had then been concealed . this door was open ; a light shone out of the room within : i heard thence a snarling , snatching sound , almost like a dog quarrelling .
mr. rochester , putting down his candle , said to me , " wait a minute , " and he went forward to the inner apartment .
he made some sort of arrangement without speaking , though i heard a low voice address him : he came out and closed the door behind him .
" here , jane ! " he said ; and i walked round to the other side of a large bed , which with its drawn curtains concealed a considerable portion of the chamber .
an easy-chair was near the bed-head : a man sat in it , dressed with the exception of his coat ; he was still ; his head leant back ; his eyes were closed .
mr. rochester held the candle over him ; i recognised in his pale and seemingly lifeless face--the stranger , mason : i saw too that his linen on one side , and one arm , was almost soaked in blood .
" hold the candle , " said mr. rochester , and i took it : he fetched a basin of water from the washstand : " hold that , " said he . i obeyed .
he took the sponge , dipped it in , and moistened the corpse-like face ; he asked for my smelling-bottle , and applied it to the nostrils .
mr. mason shortly unclosed his eyes ; he groaned . mr. rochester opened the shirt of the wounded man , whose arm and shoulder were bandaged : he sponged away blood , trickling fast down .
" is there immediate danger ? " murmured mr. mason .
" pooh ! no--a mere scratch . don 't be so overcome , man : bear up !
i 'll fetch a surgeon for you now , myself : you 'll be able to be removed by morning , i hope .
jane , " he continued .
" sir ? "
" i shall have to leave you in this room with this gentleman , for an hour , or perhaps two hours : you will sponge the blood as i do when it returns : if he feels faint , you will put the glass of water on that stand to his lips , and your salts to his nose . you will not speak to him on any pretext--and--richard , it will be at the peril of your life if you speak to her : open your lips--agitate yourself--and i 'll not answer for the consequences . "
again the poor man groaned ; he looked as if he dared not move ; fear , either of death or of something else , appeared almost to paralyse him .
mr. rochester put the now bloody sponge into my hand , and i proceeded to use it as he had done .
he watched me a second , then saying , " remember ! --no conversation , " he left the room .
i experienced a strange feeling as the key grated in the lock , and the sound of his retreating step ceased to be heard .
here then i was in the third storey , fastened into one of its mystic cells ; night around me ; a pale and bloody spectacle under my eyes and hands ; a murderess hardly separated from me by a single door : yes--that was appalling--the rest i could bear ; but i shuddered at the thought of grace poole bursting out upon me .
i must keep to my post , however . i must watch this ghastly countenance--these blue , still lips forbidden to unclose--these eyes now shut , now opening , now wandering through the room , now fixing on me , and ever glazed with the dulness of horror . i must dip my hand again and again in the basin of blood and water , and wipe away the trickling gore .
i must see the light of the unsnuffed candle wane on my employment ; the shadows darken on the wrought , antique tapestry round me , and grow black under the hangings of the vast old bed , and quiver strangely over the doors of a great cabinet opposite--whose front , divided into twelve panels , bore , in grim design , the heads of the twelve apostles , each enclosed in its separate panel as in a frame ; while above them at the top rose an ebon crucifix and a dying christ .
according as the shifting obscurity and flickering gleam hovered here or glanced there , it was now the bearded physician , luke , that bent his brow ; now st. john 's long hair that waved ; and anon the devilish face of judas , that grew out of the panel , and seemed gathering life and threatening a revelation of the arch-traitor--of satan himself--in his subordinate 's form .
amidst all this , i had to listen as well as watch : to listen for the movements of the wild beast or the fiend in yonder side den . but since mr. rochester 's visit it seemed spellbound : all the night i heard but three sounds at three long intervals , --a step creak , a momentary renewal of the snarling , canine noise , and a deep human groan .
then my own thoughts worried me . what crime was this that lived incarnate in this sequestered mansion , and could neither be expelled nor subdued by the owner ? --what mystery , that broke out now in fire and now in blood , at the deadest hours of night ?
what creature was it , that , masked in an ordinary woman 's face and shape , uttered the voice , now of a mocking demon , and anon of a carrion-seeking bird of prey ?
and this man i bent over--this commonplace , quiet stranger--how had he become involved in the web of horror ? and why had the fury flown at him ?
what made him seek this quarter of the house at an untimely season , when he should have been asleep in bed ?
i had heard mr. rochester assign him an apartment below--what brought him here !
and why , now , was he so tame under the violence or treachery done him ?
why did he so quietly submit to the concealment mr. rochester enforced ? why _ did _ mr. rochester enforce this concealment ?
his guest had been outraged , his own life on a former occasion had been hideously plotted against ; and both attempts he smothered in secrecy and sank in oblivion !
lastly , i saw mr. mason was submissive to mr. rochester ; that the impetuous will of the latter held complete sway over the inertness of the former : the few words which had passed between them assured me of this . it was evident that in their former intercourse , the passive disposition of the one had been habitually influenced by the active energy of the other : whence then had arisen mr. rochester 's dismay when he heard of mr. mason 's arrival ?
why had the mere name of this unresisting individual--whom his word now sufficed to control like a child--fallen on him , a few hours since , as a thunderbolt might fall on an oak ? oh !
i could not forget his look and his paleness when he whispered : " jane , i have got a blow--i have got a blow , jane . "
i could not forget how the arm had trembled which he rested on my shoulder : and it was no light matter which could thus bow the resolute spirit and thrill the vigorous frame of fairfax rochester .
" when will he come ? when will he come ? " i cried inwardly , as the night lingered and lingered--as my bleeding patient drooped , moaned , sickened : and neither day nor aid arrived .
i had , again and again , held the water to mason 's white lips ; again and again offered him the stimulating salts : my efforts seemed ineffectual : either bodily or mental suffering , or loss of blood , or all three combined , were fast prostrating his strength . he moaned so , and looked so weak , wild , and lost , i feared he was dying ; and i might not even speak to him .
the candle , wasted at last , went out ; as it expired , i perceived streaks of grey light edging the window curtains : dawn was then approaching .
presently i heard pilot bark far below , out of his distant kennel in the courtyard : hope revived .
nor was it unwarranted : in five minutes more the grating key , the yielding lock , warned me my watch was relieved . it could not have lasted more than two hours : many a week has seemed shorter .
mr. rochester entered , and with him the surgeon he had been to fetch .
" now , carter , be on the alert , " he said to this last : " i give you but half-an-hour for dressing the wound , fastening the bandages , getting the patient downstairs and all . "
" but is he fit to move , sir ? "
" no doubt of it ; it is nothing serious ; he is nervous , his spirits must be kept up .
come , set to work . "
mr. rochester drew back the thick curtain , drew up the holland blind , let in all the daylight he could ; and i was surprised and cheered to see how far dawn was advanced : what rosy streaks were beginning to brighten the east . then he approached mason , whom the surgeon was already handling .
" now , my good fellow , how are you ? " he asked .
" she 's done for me , i fear , " was the faint reply .
" not a whit ! --courage ! this day fortnight you 'll hardly be a pin the worse of it : you 've lost a little blood ; that 's all .
carter , assure him there 's no danger . "
" i can do that conscientiously , " said carter , who had now undone the bandages ; " only i wish i could have got here sooner : he would not have bled so much--but how is this ?
the flesh on the shoulder is torn as well as cut . this wound was not done with a knife : there have been teeth here ! "
" she bit me , " he murmured . " she worried me like a tigress , when rochester got the knife from her . "
" you should not have yielded : you should have grappled with her at once , " said mr. rochester .
" but under such circumstances , what could one do ? " returned mason .
" oh , it was frightful ! " he added , shuddering . " and i did not expect it : she looked so quiet at first . "
" i warned you , " was his friend 's answer ; " i said--be on your guard when you go near her . besides , you might have waited till to-morrow , and had me with you : it was mere folly to attempt the interview to-night , and alone . "
" i thought i could have done some good . "
" you thought ! you thought !
yes , it makes me impatient to hear you : but , however , you have suffered , and are likely to suffer enough for not taking my advice ; so i 'll say no more .
carter--hurry ! --hurry ! the sun will soon rise , and i must have him off . "
" directly , sir ; the shoulder is just bandaged .
i must look to this other wound in the arm : she has had her teeth here too , i think . "
" she sucked the blood : she said she 'd drain my heart , " said mason .
i saw mr. rochester shudder : a singularly marked expression of disgust , horror , hatred , warped his countenance almost to distortion ; but he only said--
" come , be silent , richard , and never mind her gibberish : don 't repeat it . "
" i wish i could forget it , " was the answer .
" you will when you are out of the country : when you get back to spanish town , you may think of her as dead and buried--or rather , you need not think of her at all . "
" impossible to forget this night ! "
" it is not impossible : have some energy , man .
you thought you were as dead as a herring two hours since , and you are all alive and talking now .
there ! --carter has done with you or nearly so ; i 'll make you decent in a trice .
jane " ( he turned to me for the first time since his re-entrance ) , " take this key : go down into my bedroom , and walk straight forward into my dressing-room : open the top drawer of the wardrobe and take out a clean shirt and neck-handkerchief : bring them here ; and be nimble . "
i went ; sought the repository he had mentioned , found the articles named , and returned with them .
" now , " said he , " go to the other side of the bed while i order his toilet ; but don 't leave the room : you may be wanted again . "
i retired as directed .
" was anybody stirring below when you went down , jane ? " inquired mr. rochester presently .
" no , sir ; all was very still . "
" we shall get you off cannily , dick : and it will be better , both for your sake , and for that of the poor creature in yonder .
i have striven long to avoid exposure , and i should not like it to come at last .
here , carter , help him on with his waist-coat .
where did you leave your furred cloak ? you can 't travel a mile without that , i know , in this damned cold climate .
in your room ? --jane , run down to mr. mason 's room , --the one next mine , --and fetch a cloak you will see there . "
again i ran , and again returned , bearing an immense mantle lined and edged with fur .
" now , i 've another errand for you , " said my untiring master ; " you must away to my room again .
what a mercy you are shod with velvet , jane ! --a clod-hopping messenger would never do at this juncture . you must open the middle drawer of my toilet-table and take out a little phial and a little glass you will find there , --quick ! "
i flew thither and back , bringing the desired vessels .
" that 's well !
now , doctor , i shall take the liberty of administering a dose myself , on my own responsibility .
i got this cordial at rome , of an italian charlatan--a fellow you would have kicked , carter . it is not a thing to be used indiscriminately , but it is good upon occasion : as now , for instance .
jane , a little water . "
he held out the tiny glass , and i half filled it from the water-bottle on the washstand .
" that will do ; --now wet the lip of the phial . "
i did so ; he measured twelve drops of a crimson liquid , and presented it to mason .
" drink , richard : it will give you the heart you lack , for an hour or so . "
" but will it hurt me ? --is it inflammatory ? "
" drink ! drink ! drink ! "
mr. mason obeyed , because it was evidently useless to resist .
he was dressed now : he still looked pale , but he was no longer gory and sullied .
mr. rochester let him sit three minutes after he had swallowed the liquid ; he then took his arm--
" now i am sure you can get on your feet , " he said-- " try . "
the patient rose .
" carter , take him under the other shoulder .
be of good cheer , richard ; step out--that 's it ! "
" i do feel better , " remarked mr. mason .
" i am sure you do .
now , jane , trip on before us away to the backstairs ; unbolt the side-passage door , and tell the driver of the post-chaise you will see in the yard--or just outside , for i told him not to drive his rattling wheels over the pavement--to be ready ; we are coming : and , jane , if any one is about , come to the foot of the stairs and hem . "
it was by this time half-past five , and the sun was on the point of rising ; but i found the kitchen still dark and silent . the side-passage door was fastened ; i opened it with as little noise as possible : all the yard was quiet ; but the gates stood wide open , and there was a post-chaise , with horses ready harnessed , and driver seated on the box , stationed outside .
i approached him , and said the gentlemen were coming ; he nodded : then i looked carefully round and listened .
the stillness of early morning slumbered everywhere ; the curtains were yet drawn over the servants ' chamber windows ; little birds were just twittering in the blossom-blanched orchard trees , whose boughs drooped like white garlands over the wall enclosing one side of the yard ; the carriage horses stamped from time to time in their closed stables : all else was still .
the gentlemen now appeared .
mason , supported by mr. rochester and the surgeon , seemed to walk with tolerable ease : they assisted him into the chaise ; carter followed .
" take care of him , " said mr. rochester to the latter , " and keep him at your house till he is quite well : i shall ride over in a day or two to see how he gets on .
richard , how is it with you ? "
" the fresh air revives me , fairfax . "
" leave the window open on his side , carter ; there is no wind--good-bye , dick . "
" fairfax-- "
" well what is it ? "
" let her be taken care of ; let her be treated as tenderly as may be : let her-- " he stopped and burst into tears .
" i do my best ; and have done it , and will do it , " was the answer : he shut up the chaise door , and the vehicle drove away .
" yet would to god there was an end of all this ! " added mr. rochester , as he closed and barred the heavy yard-gates .
this done , he moved with slow step and abstracted air towards a door in the wall bordering the orchard . i , supposing he had done with me , prepared to return to the house ; again , however , i heard him call " jane ! "
he had opened feel portal and stood at it , waiting for me .
" come where there is some freshness , for a few moments , " he said ; " that house is a mere dungeon : don 't you feel it so ? "
" it seems to me a splendid mansion , sir . "
" the glamour of inexperience is over your eyes , " he answered ; " and you see it through a charmed medium : you cannot discern that the gilding is slime and the silk draperies cobwebs ; that the marble is sordid slate , and the polished woods mere refuse chips and scaly bark .
now _ here _ " ( he pointed to the leafy enclosure we had entered ) " all is real , sweet , and pure . "
he strayed down a walk edged with box , with apple trees , pear trees , and cherry trees on one side , and a border on the other full of all sorts of old-fashioned flowers , stocks , sweet-williams , primroses , pansies , mingled with southernwood , sweet-briar , and various fragrant herbs . they were fresh now as a succession of april showers and gleams , followed by a lovely spring morning , could make them : the sun was just entering the dappled east , and his light illumined the wreathed and dewy orchard trees and shone down the quiet walks under them .
" jane , will you have a flower ? "
he gathered a half-blown rose , the first on the bush , and offered it to me . " thank you , sir . "
" do you like this sunrise , jane ?
that sky with its high and light clouds which are sure to melt away as the day waxes warm--this placid and balmly atmosphere ? "
" i do , very much . "
" you have passed a strange night , jane . "
" yes , sir . "
" and it has made you look pale--were you afraid when i left you alone with mason ? "
" i was afraid of some one coming out of the inner room . "
" but i had fastened the door--i had the key in my pocket : i should have been a careless shepherd if i had left a lamb--my pet lamb--so near a wolf 's den , unguarded : you were safe . "
" will grace poole live here still , sir ? "
" oh yes ! don 't trouble your head about her--put the thing out of your thoughts . "
" yet it seems to me your life is hardly secure while she stays . "
" never fear--i will take care of myself . "
" is the danger you apprehended last night gone by now , sir ? "
" i cannot vouch for that till mason is out of england : nor even then . to live , for me , jane , is to stand on a crater-crust which may crack and spue fire any day . " " but mr. mason seems a man easily led .
your influence , sir , is evidently potent with him : he will never set you at defiance or wilfully injure you . "
" oh , no !
mason will not defy me ; nor , knowing it , will he hurt me--but , unintentionally , he might in a moment , by one careless word , deprive me , if not of life , yet for ever of happiness . "
" tell him to be cautious , sir : let him know what you fear , and show him how to avert the danger . "
he laughed sardonically , hastily took my hand , and as hastily threw it from him .
" if i could do that , simpleton , where would the danger be ? annihilated in a moment . ever since i have known mason , i have only had to say to him ' do that , ' and the thing has been done .
but i cannot give him orders in this case : i cannot say ' beware of harming me , richard ; ' for it is imperative that i should keep him ignorant that harm to me is possible .
now you look puzzled ; and i will puzzle you further .
you are my little friend , are you not ? "
" i like to serve you , sir , and to obey you in all that is right . " " precisely : i see you do .
i see genuine contentment in your gait and mien , your eye and face , when you are helping me and pleasing me--working for me , and with me , in , as you characteristically say , ' _ all that is right _ : ' for if i bid you do what you thought wrong , there would be no light-footed running , no neat-handed alacrity , no lively glance and animated complexion .
my friend would then turn to me , quiet and pale , and would say , ' no , sir ; that is impossible : i cannot do it , because it is wrong ; ' and would become immutable as a fixed star .
well , you too have power over me , and may injure me : yet i dare not show you where i am vulnerable , lest , faithful and friendly as you are , you should transfix me at once . "
" if you have no more to fear from mr. mason than you have from me , sir , you are very safe . "
" god grant it may be so !
here , jane , is an arbour ; sit down . "
the arbour was an arch in the wall , lined with ivy ; it contained a rustic seat .
mr. rochester took it , leaving room , however , for me : but i stood before him .
" sit , " he said ; " the bench is long enough for two .
you don 't hesitate to take a place at my side , do you ? is that wrong , jane ? "
i answered him by assuming it : to refuse would , i felt , have been unwise .
" now , my little friend , while the sun drinks the dew--while all the flowers in this old garden awake and expand , and the birds fetch their young ones ' breakfast out of the thornfield , and the early bees do their first spell of work--i 'll put a case to you , which you must endeavour to suppose your own : but first , look at me , and tell me you are at ease , and not fearing that i err in detaining you , or that you err in staying . "
" no , sir ; i am content . "
" well then , jane , call to aid your fancy : --suppose you were no longer a girl well reared and disciplined , but a wild boy indulged from childhood upwards ; imagine yourself in a remote foreign land ; conceive that you there commit a capital error , no matter of what nature or from what motives , but one whose consequences must follow you through life and taint all your existence .
mind , i don 't say a _ crime _ ; i am not speaking of shedding of blood or any other guilty act , which might make the perpetrator amenable to the law : my word is _ error _ .
the results of what you have done become in time to you utterly insupportable ; you take measures to obtain relief : unusual measures , but neither unlawful nor culpable . still you are miserable ; for hope has quitted you on the very confines of life : your sun at noon darkens in an eclipse , which you feel will not leave it till the time of setting .
bitter and base associations have become the sole food of your memory : you wander here and there , seeking rest in exile : happiness in pleasure--i mean in heartless , sensual pleasure--such as dulls intellect and blights feeling .
heart-weary and soul-withered , you come home after years of voluntary banishment : you make a new acquaintance--how or where no matter : you find in this stranger much of the good and bright qualities which you have sought for twenty years , and never before encountered ; and they are all fresh , healthy , without soil and without taint . such society revives , regenerates : you feel better days come back--higher wishes , purer feelings ; you desire to recommence your life , and to spend what remains to you of days in a way more worthy of an immortal being .
to attain this end , are you justified in overleaping an obstacle of custom--a mere conventional impediment which neither your conscience sanctifies nor your judgment approves ? "
he paused for an answer :
and what was i to say ?
oh , for some good spirit to suggest a judicious and satisfactory response !
vain aspiration ! the west wind whispered in the ivy round me ; but no gentle ariel borrowed its breath as a medium of speech : the birds sang in the tree-tops ; but their song , however sweet , was inarticulate .
again mr. rochester propounded his query :
" is the wandering and sinful , but now rest-seeking and repentant , man justified in daring the world 's opinion , in order to attach to him for ever this gentle , gracious , genial stranger , thereby securing his own peace of mind and regeneration of life ? "
" sir , " i answered , " a wanderer 's repose or a sinner 's reformation should never depend on a fellow-creature .
men and women die ; philosophers falter in wisdom , and christians in goodness : if any one you know has suffered and erred , let him look higher than his equals for strength to amend and solace to heal . "
" but the instrument--the instrument !
god , who does the work , ordains the instrument .
i have myself--i tell it you without parable--been a worldly , dissipated , restless man ; and i believe i have found the instrument for my cure in-- "
he paused : the birds went on carolling , the leaves lightly rustling . i almost wondered they did not check their songs and whispers to catch the suspended revelation ; but they would have had to wait many minutes--so long was the silence protracted .
at last i looked up at the tardy speaker : he was looking eagerly at me .
" little friend , " said he , in quite a changed tone--while his face changed too , losing all its softness and gravity , and becoming harsh and sarcastic-- " you have noticed my tender penchant for miss ingram : don 't you think if i married her she would regenerate me with a vengeance ? "
he got up instantly , went quite to the other end of the walk , and when he came back he was humming a tune .
" jane , jane , " said he , stopping before me , " you are quite pale with your vigils : don 't you curse me for disturbing your rest ? "
" curse you ? no , sir . "
" shake hands in confirmation of the word .
what cold fingers ! they were warmer last night when i touched them at the door of the mysterious chamber .
jane , when will you watch with me again ? "
" whenever i can be useful , sir . "
" for instance , the night before i am married ! i am sure i shall not be able to sleep . will you promise to sit up with me to bear me company ? to you i can talk of my lovely one : for now you have seen her and know her . "
" yes , sir . "
" she 's a rare one , is she not , jane ? "
" yes , sir . "
" a strapper--a real strapper , jane : big , brown , and buxom ; with hair just such as the ladies of carthage must have had .
bless me ! there 's dent and lynn in the stables !
go in by the shrubbery , through that wicket . " as i went one way , he went another , and i heard him in the yard , saying cheerfully--
" mason got the start of you all this morning ; he was gone before sunrise : i rose at four to see him off . "
chapter xxi
presentiments are strange things ! and so are sympathies ; and so are signs ; and the three combined make one mystery to which humanity has not yet found the key . i never laughed at presentiments in my life , because i have had strange ones of my own . sympathies , i believe , exist ( for instance , between far-distant , long-absent , wholly estranged relatives asserting , notwithstanding their alienation , the unity of the source to which each traces his origin ) whose workings baffle mortal comprehension . and signs , for aught we know , may be but the sympathies of nature with man .
when i was a little girl , only six years old , i one night heard bessie leaven say to martha abbot that she had been dreaming about a little child ; and that to dream of children was a sure sign of trouble , either to one 's self or one 's kin . the saying might have worn out of my memory , had not a circumstance immediately followed which served indelibly to fix it there .
the next day bessie was sent for home to the deathbed of her little sister .
of late i had often recalled this saying and this incident ; for during the past week scarcely a night had gone over my couch that had not brought with it a dream of an infant , which i sometimes hushed in my arms , sometimes dandled on my knee , sometimes watched playing with daisies on a lawn , or again , dabbling its hands in running water .
it was a wailing child this night , and a laughing one the next : now it nestled close to me , and now it ran from me ; but whatever mood the apparition evinced , whatever aspect it wore , it failed not for seven successive nights to meet me the moment i entered the land of slumber .
i did not like this iteration of one idea--this strange recurrence of one image , and i grew nervous as bedtime approached and the hour of the vision drew near .
it was from companionship with this baby-phantom i had been roused on that moonlight night when i heard the cry ; and it was on the afternoon of the day following i was summoned downstairs by a message that some one wanted me in mrs. fairfax 's room . on repairing thither , i found a man waiting for me , having the appearance of a gentleman 's servant : he was dressed in deep mourning , and the hat he held in his hand was surrounded with a crape band .
" i daresay you hardly remember me , miss , " he said , rising as i entered ; " but my name is leaven : i lived coachman with mrs. reed when you were at gateshead , eight or nine years since , and i live there still . "
" oh , robert ! how do you do ?
i remember you very well : you used to give me a ride sometimes on miss georgiana 's bay pony .
and how is bessie ? you are married to bessie ? "
" yes , miss : my wife is very hearty , thank you ; she brought me another little one about two months since--we have three now--and both mother and child are thriving . "
" and are the family well at the house , robert ? "
" i am sorry i can 't give you better news of them , miss : they are very badly at present--in great trouble . "
" i hope no one is dead , " i said , glancing at his black dress .
he too looked down at the crape round his hat and replied-- " mr. john died yesterday was a week , at his chambers in london . "
" mr. john ? "
" yes . "
" and how does his mother bear it ? "
" why , you see , miss eyre , it is not a common mishap : his life has been very wild : these last three years he gave himself up to strange ways , and his death was shocking . "
" i heard from bessie he was not doing well . "
" doing well ! he could not do worse : he ruined his health and his estate amongst the worst men and the worst women .
he got into debt and into jail : his mother helped him out twice , but as soon as he was free he returned to his old companions and habits . his head was not strong : the knaves he lived amongst fooled him beyond anything i ever heard .
he came down to gateshead about three weeks ago and wanted missis to give up all to him . missis refused : her means have long been much reduced by his extravagance ; so he went back again , and the next news was that he was dead .
how he died , god knows ! --they say he killed himself . "
i was silent : the things were frightful .
robert leaven resumed-- " missis had been out of health herself for some time : she had got very stout , but was not strong with it ; and the loss of money and fear of poverty were quite breaking her down .
the information about mr. john 's death and the manner of it came too suddenly : it brought on a stroke .
she was three days without speaking ; but last tuesday she seemed rather better : she appeared as if she wanted to say something , and kept making signs to my wife and mumbling . it was only yesterday morning , however , that bessie understood she was pronouncing your name ; and at last she made out the words , ' bring jane--fetch jane eyre : i want to speak to her . '
bessie is not sure whether she is in her right mind , or means anything by the words ; but she told miss reed and miss georgiana , and advised them to send for you .
the young ladies put it off at first ; but their mother grew so restless , and said , ' jane , jane , ' so many times , that at last they consented .
i left gateshead yesterday : and if you can get ready , miss , i should like to take you back with me early to-morrow morning . "
" yes , robert , i shall be ready : it seems to me that i ought to go . "
" i think so too , miss . bessie said she was sure you would not refuse : but i suppose you will have to ask leave before you can get off ? "
" yes ; and i will do it now ; " and having directed him to the servants ' hall , and recommended him to the care of john 's wife , and the attentions of john himself , i went in search of mr. rochester .
he was not in any of the lower rooms ; he was not in the yard , the stables , or the grounds .
i asked mrs. fairfax if she had seen him ; --yes : she believed he was playing billiards with miss ingram .
to the billiard- room i hastened : the click of balls and the hum of voices resounded thence ; mr. rochester , miss ingram , the two misses eshton , and their admirers , were all busied in the game . it required some courage to disturb so interesting a party ; my errand , however , was one i could not defer , so i approached the master where he stood at miss ingram 's side .
she turned as i drew near , and looked at me haughtily : her eyes seemed to demand , " what can the creeping creature want now ? " and when i said , in a low voice , " mr. rochester , " she made a movement as if tempted to order me away .
i remember her appearance at the moment--it was very graceful and very striking : she wore a morning robe of sky-blue crape ; a gauzy azure scarf was twisted in her hair . she had been all animation with the game , and irritated pride did not lower the expression of her haughty lineaments .
" does that person want you ? " she inquired of mr. rochester ; and mr. rochester turned to see who the " person " was .
he made a curious grimace--one of his strange and equivocal demonstrations--threw down his cue and followed me from the room .
" well , jane ? " he said , as he rested his back against the schoolroom door , which he had shut .
" if you please , sir , i want leave of absence for a week or two . "
" what to do ? --where to go ? "
" to see a sick lady who has sent for me . "
" what sick lady ? --where does she live ? "
" at gateshead ; in ---shire . "
" -shire ? that is a hundred miles off !
who may she be that sends for people to see her that distance ? "
" her name is reed , sir--mrs . reed . "
" reed of gateshead ?
there was a reed of gateshead , a magistrate . "
" it is his widow , sir . "
" and what have you to do with her ? how do you know her ? "
" mr. reed was my uncle--my mother 's brother . "
" the deuce he was ! you never told me that before : you always said you had no relations . "
" none that would own me , sir . mr. reed is dead , and his wife cast me off . "
" why ? "
" because i was poor , and burdensome , and she disliked me . "
" but reed left children ? --you must have cousins ?
sir george lynn was talking of a reed of gateshead yesterday , who , he said , was one of the veriest rascals on town ; and ingram was mentioning a georgiana reed of the same place , who was much admired for her beauty a season or two ago in london . "
" john reed is dead , too , sir : he ruined himself and half-ruined his family , and is supposed to have committed suicide . the news so shocked his mother that it brought on an apoplectic attack . "
" and what good can you do her ? nonsense , jane !
i would never think of running a hundred miles to see an old lady who will , perhaps , be dead before you reach her : besides , you say she cast you off . "
" yes , sir , but that is long ago ; and when her circumstances were very different : i could not be easy to neglect her wishes now . "
" how long will you stay ? "
" as short a time as possible , sir . "
" promise me only to stay a week-- "
" i had better not pass my word : i might be obliged to break it . "
" at all events you _ will _ come back : you will not be induced under any pretext to take up a permanent residence with her ? "
" oh , no ! i shall certainly return if all be well . "
" and who goes with you ? you don 't travel a hundred miles alone . "
" no , sir , she has sent her coachman . "
" a person to be trusted ? "
" yes , sir , he has lived ten years in the family . "
mr. rochester meditated .
" when do you wish to go ? "
" early to-morrow morning , sir . "
" well , you must have some money ; you can 't travel without money , and i daresay you have not much : i have given you no salary yet .
how much have you in the world , jane ? " he asked , smiling .
i drew out my purse ; a meagre thing it was .
" five shillings , sir . "
he took the purse , poured the hoard into his palm , and chuckled over it as if its scantiness amused him .
soon he produced his pocket-book : " here , " said he , offering me a note ; it was fifty pounds , and he owed me but fifteen .
i told him i had no change .
" i don 't want change ; you know that . take your wages . "
i declined accepting more than was my due .
he scowled at first ; then , as if recollecting something , he said-- " right , right !
better not give you all now : you would , perhaps , stay away three months if you had fifty pounds .
there are ten ; is it not plenty ? "
" yes , sir , but now you owe me five . "
" come back for it , then ; i am your banker for forty pounds . "
" mr. rochester , i may as well mention another matter of business to you while i have the opportunity . "
" matter of business ? i am curious to hear it . "
" you have as good as informed me , sir , that you are going shortly to be married ? "
" yes ; what then ? "
" in that case , sir , adele ought to go to school : i am sure you will perceive the necessity of it . "
" to get her out of my bride 's way , who might otherwise walk over her rather too emphatically ?
there 's sense in the suggestion ; not a doubt of it . adele , as you say , must go to school ; and you , of course , must march straight to--the devil ? "
" i hope not , sir ; but i must seek another situation somewhere . "
" in course ! " he exclaimed , with a twang of voice and a distortion of features equally fantastic and ludicrous .
he looked at me some minutes .
" and old madam reed , or the misses , her daughters , will be solicited by you to seek a place , i suppose ? "
" no , sir ; i am not on such terms with my relatives as would justify me in asking favours of them--but i shall advertise . "
" you shall walk up the pyramids of egypt ! " he growled . " at your peril you advertise !
i wish i had only offered you a sovereign instead of ten pounds .
give me back nine pounds , jane ; i 've a use for it . "
" and so have i , sir , " i returned , putting my hands and my purse behind me . " i could not spare the money on any account . "
" little niggard ! " said he , " refusing me a pecuniary request !
give me five pounds , jane . "
" not five shillings , sir ; nor five pence . "
" just let me look at the cash . "
" no , sir ; you are not to be trusted . "
" jane ! "
" sir ? "
" promise me one thing . "
" i 'll promise you anything , sir , that i think i am likely to perform . "
" not to advertise : and to trust this quest of a situation to me . i 'll find you one in time . "
" i shall be glad so to do , sir , if you , in your turn , will promise that i and adele shall be both safe out of the house before your bride enters it . "
" very well ! very well ! i 'll pledge my word on it .
" yes , sir ; early . "
" shall you come down to the drawing-room after dinner ? "
" no , sir , i must prepare for the journey . "
" then you and i must bid good-bye for a little while ? "
" i suppose so , sir . "
" and how do people perform that ceremony of parting , jane ?
teach me ; i 'm not quite up to it . "
" they say , farewell , or any other form they prefer . "
" then say it . "
" farewell , mr. rochester , for the present . "
" what must i say ? "
" the same , if you like , sir . "
" farewell , miss eyre , for the present ; is that all ? "
" yes ? "
" it seems stingy , to my notions , and dry , and unfriendly . i should like something else : a little addition to the rite . if one shook hands , for instance ; but no--that would not content me either .
so you 'll do no more than say farewell , jane ? "
" it is enough , sir : as much good-will may be conveyed in one hearty word as in many . "
" very likely ; but it is blank and cool-- ' farewell . ' "
" how long is he going to stand with his back against that door ? " i asked myself ; " i want to commence my packing . "
the dinner-bell rang , and suddenly away he bolted , without another syllable : i saw him no more during the day , and was off before he had risen in the morning .
i reached the lodge at gateshead about five o 'clock in the afternoon of the first of may : i stepped in there before going up to the hall .
it was very clean and neat : the ornamental windows were hung with little white curtains ; the floor was spotless ; the grate and fire-irons were burnished bright , and the fire burnt clear . bessie sat on the hearth , nursing her last-born , and robert and his sister played quietly in a corner .
" bless you ! --i knew you would come ! " exclaimed mrs. leaven , as i entered .
" yes , bessie , " said i , after i had kissed her ; " and i trust i am not too late .
how is mrs. reed ? --alive still , i hope . "
" yes , she is alive ; and more sensible and collected than she was .
the doctor says she may linger a week or two yet ; but he hardly thinks she will finally recover . "
" has she mentioned me lately ? "
" she was talking of you only this morning , and wishing you would come , but she is sleeping now , or was ten minutes ago , when i was up at the house .
she generally lies in a kind of lethargy all the afternoon , and wakes up about six or seven . will you rest yourself here an hour , miss , and then i will go up with you ? "
robert here entered , and bessie laid her sleeping child in the cradle and went to welcome him : afterwards she insisted on my taking off my bonnet and having some tea ; for she said i looked pale and tired .
i was glad to accept her hospitality ; and i submitted to be relieved of my travelling garb just as passively as i used to let her undress me when a child .
old times crowded fast back on me as i watched her bustling about--setting out the tea-tray with her best china , cutting bread and butter , toasting a tea-cake , and , between whiles , giving little robert or jane an occasional tap or push , just as she used to give me in former days . bessie had retained her quick temper as well as her light foot and good looks .
tea ready , i was going to approach the table ; but she desired me to sit still , quite in her old peremptory tones . i must be served at the fireside , she said ; and she placed before me a little round stand with my cup and a plate of toast , absolutely as she used to accommodate me with some privately purloined dainty on a nursery chair : and i smiled and obeyed her as in bygone days .
she wanted to know if i was happy at thornfield hall , and what sort of a person the mistress was ; and when i told her there was only a master , whether he was a nice gentleman , and if i liked him .
i told her he was rather an ugly man , but quite a gentleman ; and that he treated me kindly , and i was content . then i went on to describe to her the gay company that had lately been staying at the house ; and to these details bessie listened with interest : they were precisely of the kind she relished .
in such conversation an hour was soon gone : bessie restored to me my bonnet , & c . , and , accompanied by her , i quitted the lodge for the hall .
it was also accompanied by her that i had , nearly nine years ago , walked down the path i was now ascending . on a dark , misty , raw morning in january , i had left a hostile roof with a desperate and embittered heart--a sense of outlawry and almost of reprobation--to seek the chilly harbourage of lowood : that bourne so far away and unexplored .
the same hostile roof now again rose before me : my prospects were doubtful yet ; and i had yet an aching heart . i still felt as a wanderer on the face of the earth ; but i experienced firmer trust in myself and my own powers , and less withering dread of oppression . the gaping wound of my wrongs , too , was now quite healed ; and the flame of resentment extinguished .
" you shall go into the breakfast-room first , " said bessie , as she preceded me through the hall ; " the young ladies will be there . "
in another moment i was within that apartment .
there was every article of furniture looking just as it did on the morning i was first introduced to mr. brocklehurst : the very rug he had stood upon still covered the hearth . glancing at the bookcases , i thought i could distinguish the two volumes of bewick 's british birds occupying their old place on the third shelf , and gulliver 's travels and the arabian nights ranged just above . the inanimate objects were not changed ; but the living things had altered past recognition .
two young ladies appeared before me ; one very tall , almost as tall as miss ingram--very thin too , with a sallow face and severe mien . there was something ascetic in her look , which was augmented by the extreme plainness of a straight-skirted , black , stuff dress , a starched linen collar , hair combed away from the temples , and the nun-like ornament of a string of ebony beads and a crucifix .
this i felt sure was eliza , though i could trace little resemblance to her former self in that elongated and colourless visage .
the other was as certainly georgiana : but not the georgiana i remembered--the slim and fairy-like girl of eleven .
this was a full-blown , very plump damsel , fair as waxwork , with handsome and regular features , languishing blue eyes , and ringleted yellow hair .
the hue of her dress was black too ; but its fashion was so different from her sister 's--so much more flowing and becoming--it looked as stylish as the other 's looked puritanical .
in each of the sisters there was one trait of the mother--and only one ; the thin and pallid elder daughter had her parent 's cairngorm eye : the blooming and luxuriant younger girl had her contour of jaw and chin--perhaps a little softened , but still imparting an indescribable hardness to the countenance otherwise so voluptuous and buxom .
both ladies , as i advanced , rose to welcome me , and both addressed me by the name of " miss eyre . "
eliza 's greeting was delivered in a short , abrupt voice , without a smile ; and then she sat down again , fixed her eyes on the fire , and seemed to forget me .
georgiana added to her " how d 'ye do ? " several commonplaces about my journey , the weather , and so on , uttered in rather a drawling tone : and accompanied by sundry side-glances that measured me from head to foot--now traversing the folds of my drab merino pelisse , and now lingering on the plain trimming of my cottage bonnet .
young ladies have a remarkable way of letting you know that they think you a " quiz " without actually saying the words . a certain superciliousness of look , coolness of manner , nonchalance of tone , express fully their sentiments on the point , without committing them by any positive rudeness in word or deed .
a sneer , however , whether covert or open , had now no longer that power over me it once possessed : as i sat between my cousins , i was surprised to find how easy i felt under the total neglect of the one and the semi- sarcastic attentions of the other--eliza did not mortify , nor georgiana ruffle me .
the fact was , i had other things to think about ; within the last few months feelings had been stirred in me so much more potent than any they could raise--pains and pleasures so much more acute and exquisite had been excited than any it was in their power to inflict or bestow--that their airs gave me no concern either for good or bad .
" how is mrs. reed ? " i asked soon , looking calmly at georgiana , who thought fit to bridle at the direct address , as if it were an unexpected liberty .
" mrs. reed ? ah ! mama , you mean ; she is extremely poorly : i doubt if you can see her to-night . "
" if , " said i , " you would just step upstairs and tell her i am come , i should be much obliged to you . "
georgiana almost started , and she opened her blue eyes wild and wide .
" i know she had a particular wish to see me , " i added , " and i would not defer attending to her desire longer than is absolutely necessary . "
" mama dislikes being disturbed in an evening , " remarked eliza .
i soon rose , quietly took off my bonnet and gloves , uninvited , and said i would just step out to bessie--who was , i dared say , in the kitchen--and ask her to ascertain whether mrs. reed was disposed to receive me or not to- night .
i went , and having found bessie and despatched her on my errand , i proceeded to take further measures .
it had heretofore been my habit always to shrink from arrogance : received as i had been to-day , i should , a year ago , have resolved to quit gateshead the very next morning ; now , it was disclosed to me all at once that that would be a foolish plan .
i had taken a journey of a hundred miles to see my aunt , and i must stay with her till she was better--or dead : as to her daughters ' pride or folly , i must put it on one side , make myself independent of it .
so i addressed the housekeeper ; asked her to show me a room , told her i should probably be a visitor here for a week or two , had my trunk conveyed to my chamber , and followed it thither myself : i met bessie on the landing .
" missis is awake , " said she ; " i have told her you are here : come and let us see if she will know you . "
i did not need to be guided to the well-known room , to which i had so often been summoned for chastisement or reprimand in former days . i hastened before bessie ; i softly opened the door : a shaded light stood on the table , for it was now getting dark .
there was the great four-post bed with amber hangings as of old ; there the toilet-table , the armchair , and the footstool , at which i had a hundred times been sentenced to kneel , to ask pardon for offences by me uncommitted .
i looked into a certain corner near , half-expecting to see the slim outline of a once dreaded switch which used to lurk there , waiting to leap out imp-like and lace my quivering palm or shrinking neck . i approached the bed ; i opened the curtains and leant over the high-piled pillows .
well did i remember mrs. reed 's face , and i eagerly sought the familiar image .
it is a happy thing that time quells the longings of vengeance and hushes the promptings of rage and aversion . i had left this woman in bitterness and hate , and i came back to her now with no other emotion than a sort of ruth for her great sufferings , and a strong yearning to forget and forgive all injuries--to be reconciled and clasp hands in amity .
the well-known face was there : stern , relentless as ever--there was that peculiar eye which nothing could melt , and the somewhat raised , imperious , despotic eyebrow .
how often had it lowered on me menace and hate ! and how the recollection of childhood 's terrors and sorrows revived as i traced its harsh line now ! and yet i stooped down and kissed her : she looked at me .
" is this jane eyre ? " she said .
" yes , aunt reed . how are you , dear aunt ? " i had once vowed that i would never call her aunt again : i thought it no sin to forget and break that vow now .
my fingers had fastened on her hand which lay outside the sheet : had she pressed mine kindly , i should at that moment have experienced true pleasure . but unimpressionable natures are not so soon softened , nor are natural antipathies so readily eradicated . mrs. reed took her hand away , and , turning her face rather from me , she remarked that the night was warm .
again she regarded me so icily , i felt at once that her opinion of me--her feeling towards me--was unchanged and unchangeable .
i knew by her stony eye--opaque to tenderness , indissoluble to tears--that she was resolved to consider me bad to the last ; because to believe me good would give her no generous pleasure : only a sense of mortification .
i felt pain , and then i felt ire ; and then i felt a determination to subdue her--to be her mistress in spite both of her nature and her will .
my tears had risen , just as in childhood : i ordered them back to their source . i brought a chair to the bed-head : i sat down and leaned over the pillow .
" you sent for me , " i said , " and i am here ; and it is my intention to stay till i see how you get on . "
" oh , of course !
you have seen my daughters ? "
" yes . "
" well , you may tell them i wish you to stay till i can talk some things over with you i have on my mind : to-night it is too late , and i have a difficulty in recalling them .
but there was something i wished to say--let me see-- " the wandering look and changed utterance told what wreck had taken place in her once vigorous frame . turning restlessly , she drew the bedclothes round her ; my elbow , resting on a corner of the quilt , fixed it down : she was at once irritated .
" sit up ! " said she ; " don 't annoy me with holding the clothes fast .
are you jane eyre ? "
" i have had more trouble with that child than any one would believe .
such a burden to be left on my hands--and so much annoyance as she caused me , daily and hourly , with her incomprehensible disposition , and her sudden starts of temper , and her continual , unnatural watchings of one 's movements !
i declare she talked to me once like something mad , or like a fiend--no child ever spoke or looked as she did ; i was glad to get her away from the house .
what did they do with her at lowood ?
the fever broke out there , and many of the pupils died . she , however , did not die : but i said she did--i wish she had died ! "
" a strange wish , mrs. reed ; why do you hate her so ? "
" i had a dislike to her mother always ; for she was my husband 's only sister , and a great favourite with him : he opposed the family 's disowning her when she made her low marriage ; and when news came of her death , he wept like a simpleton .
he would send for the baby ; though i entreated him rather to put it out to nurse and pay for its maintenance . i hated it the first time i set my eyes on it--a sickly , whining , pining thing ! it would wail in its cradle all night long--not screaming heartily like any other child , but whimpering and moaning .
reed pitied it ; and he used to nurse it and notice it as if it had been his own : more , indeed , than he ever noticed his own at that age . he would try to make my children friendly to the little beggar : the darlings could not bear it , and he was angry with them when they showed their dislike .
in his last illness , he had it brought continually to his bedside ; and but an hour before he died , he bound me by vow to keep the creature .
i would as soon have been charged with a pauper brat out of a workhouse : but he was weak , naturally weak .
john does not at all resemble his father , and i am glad of it : john is like me and like my brothers--he is quite a gibson .
oh , i wish he would cease tormenting me with letters for money ? i have no more money to give him : we are getting poor .
i must send away half the servants and shut up part of the house ; or let it off . i can never submit to do that--yet how are we to get on ? two-thirds of my income goes in paying the interest of mortgages .
john gambles dreadfully , and always loses--poor boy ! he is beset by sharpers : john is sunk and degraded--his look is frightful--i feel ashamed for him when i see him . "
she was getting much excited .
" i think i had better leave her now , " said i to bessie , who stood on the other side of the bed .
" perhaps you had , miss : but she often talks in this way towards night--in the morning she is calmer . "
i rose .
" stop ! " exclaimed mrs. reed , " there is another thing i wished to say . he threatens me--he continually threatens me with his own death , or mine : and i dream sometimes that i see him laid out with a great wound in his throat , or with a swollen and blackened face . i am come to a strange pass : i have heavy troubles .
what is to be done ?
how is the money to be had ? "
bessie now endeavoured to persuade her to take a sedative draught : she succeeded with difficulty .
soon after , mrs. reed grew more composed , and sank into a dozing state . i then left her .
more than ten days elapsed before i had again any conversation with her . she continued either delirious or lethargic ; and the doctor forbade everything which could painfully excite her .
meantime , i got on as well as i could with georgiana and eliza .
they were very cold , indeed , at first . eliza would sit half the day sewing , reading , or writing , and scarcely utter a word either to me or her sister .
georgiana would chatter nonsense to her canary bird by the hour , and take no notice of me . but i was determined not to seem at a loss for occupation or amusement : i had brought my drawing materials with me , and they served me for both .
provided with a case of pencils , and some sheets of paper , i used to take a seat apart from them , near the window , and busy myself in sketching fancy vignettes , representing any scene that happened momentarily to shape itself in the ever-shifting kaleidoscope of imagination : a glimpse of sea between two rocks ; the rising moon , and a ship crossing its disk ; a group of reeds and water-flags , and a naiad 's head , crowned with lotus- flowers , rising out of them ; an elf sitting in a hedge-sparrow 's nest , under a wreath of hawthorn-bloom .
one morning i fell to sketching a face : what sort of a face it was to be , i did not care or know . i took a soft black pencil , gave it a broad point , and worked away . soon i had traced on the paper a broad and prominent forehead and a square lower outline of visage : that contour gave me pleasure ; my fingers proceeded actively to fill it with features . strongly-marked horizontal eyebrows must be traced under that brow ; then followed , naturally , a well-defined nose , with a straight ridge and full nostrils ; then a flexible-looking mouth , by no means narrow ; then a firm chin , with a decided cleft down the middle of it : of course , some black whiskers were wanted , and some jetty hair , tufted on the temples , and waved above the forehead .
now for the eyes : i had left them to the last , because they required the most careful working .
i drew them large ; i shaped them well : the eyelashes i traced long and sombre ; the irids lustrous and large .
" good ! but not quite the thing , " i thought , as i surveyed the effect : " they want more force and spirit ; " and i wrought the shades blacker , that the lights might flash more brilliantly--a happy touch or two secured success .
there , i had a friend 's face under my gaze ; and what did it signify that those young ladies turned their backs on me ?
i looked at it ; i smiled at the speaking likeness : i was absorbed and content .
" is that a portrait of some one you know ? " asked eliza , who had approached me unnoticed .
i responded that it was merely a fancy head , and hurried it beneath the other sheets .
of course , i lied : it was , in fact , a very faithful representation of mr. rochester . but what was that to her , or to any one but myself ?
georgiana also advanced to look . the other drawings pleased her much , but she called that " an ugly man . "
they both seemed surprised at my skill .
i offered to sketch their portraits ; and each , in turn , sat for a pencil outline .
then georgiana produced her album .
i promised to contribute a water-colour drawing : this put her at once into good humour .
she proposed a walk in the grounds . before we had been out two hours , we were deep in a confidential conversation : she had favoured me with a description of the brilliant winter she had spent in london two seasons ago--of the admiration she had there excited--the attention she had received ; and i even got hints of the titled conquest she had made .
in the course of the afternoon and evening these hints were enlarged on : various soft conversations were reported , and sentimental scenes represented ; and , in short , a volume of a novel of fashionable life was that day improvised by her for my benefit .
the communications were renewed from day to day : they always ran on the same theme--herself , her loves , and woes . it was strange she never once adverted either to her mother 's illness , or her brother 's death , or the present gloomy state of the family prospects . her mind seemed wholly taken up with reminiscences of past gaiety , and aspirations after dissipations to come .
she passed about five minutes each day in her mother 's sick-room , and no more .
eliza still spoke little : she had evidently no time to talk . i never saw a busier person than she seemed to be ; yet it was difficult to say what she did : or rather , to discover any result of her diligence .
she had an alarm to call her up early . i know not how she occupied herself before breakfast , but after that meal she divided her time into regular portions , and each hour had its allotted task .
three times a day she studied a little book , which i found , on inspection , was a common prayer book .
i asked her once what was the great attraction of that volume , and she said , " the rubric . "
three hours she gave to stitching , with gold thread , the border of a square crimson cloth , almost large enough for a carpet . in answer to my inquiries after the use of this article , she informed me it was a covering for the altar of a new church lately erected near gateshead .
two hours she devoted to her diary ; two to working by herself in the kitchen-garden ; and one to the regulation of her accounts .
she seemed to want no company ; no conversation . i believe she was happy in her way : this routine sufficed for her ; and nothing annoyed her so much as the occurrence of any incident which forced her to vary its clockwork regularity .
she told me one evening , when more disposed to be communicative than usual , that john 's conduct , and the threatened ruin of the family , had been a source of profound affliction to her : but she had now , she said , settled her mind , and formed her resolution . her own fortune she had taken care to secure ; and when her mother died--and it was wholly improbable , she tranquilly remarked , that she should either recover or linger long--she would execute a long-cherished project : seek a retirement where punctual habits would be permanently secured from disturbance , and place safe barriers between herself and a frivolous world .
i asked if georgiana would accompany her .
" of course not .
georgiana and she had nothing in common : they never had had . she would not be burdened with her society for any consideration . georgiana should take her own course ; and she , eliza , would take hers . "
georgiana , when not unburdening her heart to me , spent most of her time in lying on the sofa , fretting about the dulness of the house , and wishing over and over again that her aunt gibson would send her an invitation up to town .
" it would be so much better , " she said , " if she could only get out of the way for a month or two , till all was over . "
i did not ask what she meant by " all being over , " but i suppose she referred to the expected decease of her mother and the gloomy sequel of funeral rites .
eliza generally took no more notice of her sister 's indolence and complaints than if no such murmuring , lounging object had been before her .
one day , however , as she put away her account-book and unfolded her embroidery , she suddenly took her up thus--
" georgiana , a more vain and absurd animal than you was certainly never allowed to cumber the earth . you had no right to be born , for you make no use of life .
instead of living for , in , and with yourself , as a reasonable being ought , you seek only to fasten your feebleness on some other person 's strength : if no one can be found willing to burden her or himself with such a fat , weak , puffy , useless thing , you cry out that you are ill-treated , neglected , miserable . then , too , existence for you must be a scene of continual change and excitement , or else the world is a dungeon : you must be admired , you must be courted , you must be flattered--you must have music , dancing , and society--or you languish , you die away .
have you no sense to devise a system which will make you independent of all efforts , and all wills , but your own ?
take one day ; share it into sections ; to each section apportion its task : leave no stray unemployed quarters of an hour , ten minutes , five minutes--include all ; do each piece of business in its turn with method , with rigid regularity . the day will close almost before you are aware it has begun ; and you are indebted to no one for helping you to get rid of one vacant moment : you have had to seek no one 's company , conversation , sympathy , forbearance ; you have lived , in short , as an independent being ought to do .
take this advice : the first and last i shall offer you ; then you will not want me or any one else , happen what may .
neglect it--go on as heretofore , craving , whining , and idling--and suffer the results of your idiocy , however bad and insuperable they may be .
i tell you this plainly ; and listen : for though i shall no more repeat what i am now about to say , i shall steadily act on it .
after my mother 's death , i wash my hands of you : from the day her coffin is carried to the vault in gateshead church , you and i will be as separate as if we had never known each other .
you need not think that because we chanced to be born of the same parents , i shall suffer you to fasten me down by even the feeblest claim : i can tell you this--if the whole human race , ourselves excepted , were swept away , and we two stood alone on the earth , i would leave you in the old world , and betake myself to the new . "
she closed her lips .
" you might have spared yourself the trouble of delivering that tirade , " answered georgiana .
" everybody knows you are the most selfish , heartless creature in existence : and _ i _ know your spiteful hatred towards me : i have had a specimen of it before in the trick you played me about lord edwin vere : you could not bear me to be raised above you , to have a title , to be received into circles where you dare not show your face , and so you acted the spy and informer , and ruined my prospects for ever . "
georgiana took out her handkerchief and blew her nose for an hour afterwards ; eliza sat cold , impassable , and assiduously industrious .
true , generous feeling is made small account of by some , but here were two natures rendered , the one intolerably acrid , the other despicably savourless for the want of it .
feeling without judgment is a washy draught indeed ; but judgment untempered by feeling is too bitter and husky a morsel for human deglutition .
it was a wet and windy afternoon : georgiana had fallen asleep on the sofa over the perusal of a novel ; eliza was gone to attend a saint 's-day service at the new church--for in matters of religion she was a rigid formalist : no weather ever prevented the punctual discharge of what she considered her devotional duties ; fair or foul , she went to church thrice every sunday , and as often on week-days as there were prayers .
i bethought myself to go upstairs and see how the dying woman sped , who lay there almost unheeded : the very servants paid her but a remittent attention : the hired nurse , being little looked after , would slip out of the room whenever she could . bessie was faithful ; but she had her own family to mind , and could only come occasionally to the hall .
i found the sick-room unwatched , as i had expected : no nurse was there ; the patient lay still , and seemingly lethargic ; her livid face sunk in the pillows : the fire was dying in the grate . i renewed the fuel , re-arranged the bedclothes , gazed awhile on her who could not now gaze on me , and then i moved away to the window .
the rain beat strongly against the panes , the wind blew tempestuously : " one lies there , " i thought , " who will soon be beyond the war of earthly elements . whither will that spirit--now struggling to quit its material tenement--flit when at length released ? "
in pondering the great mystery , i thought of helen burns , recalled her dying words--her faith--her doctrine of the equality of disembodied souls . i was still listening in thought to her well-remembered tones--still picturing her pale and spiritual aspect , her wasted face and sublime gaze , as she lay on her placid deathbed , and whispered her longing to be restored to her divine father 's bosom--when a feeble voice murmured from the couch behind : " who is that ? "
i knew mrs. reed had not spoken for days : was she reviving ?
i went up to her .
" it is i , aunt reed . "
" who--i ? " was her answer .
" who are you ? " looking at me with surprise and a sort of alarm , but still not wildly .
" you are quite a stranger to me--where is bessie ? "
" she is at the lodge , aunt . "
" aunt , " she repeated . " who calls me aunt ?
you are not one of the gibsons ; and yet i know you--that face , and the eyes and forehead , are quiet familiar to me : you are like--why , you are like jane eyre ! "
i said nothing : i was afraid of occasioning some shock by declaring my identity .
" yet , " said she , " i am afraid it is a mistake : my thoughts deceive me . i wished to see jane eyre , and i fancy a likeness where none exists : besides , in eight years she must be so changed . "
i now gently assured her that i was the person she supposed and desired me to be : and seeing that i was understood , and that her senses were quite collected , i explained how bessie had sent her husband to fetch me from thornfield .
" i am very ill , i know , " she said ere long . " i was trying to turn myself a few minutes since , and find i cannot move a limb .
it is as well i should ease my mind before i die : what we think little of in health , burdens us at such an hour as the present is to me .
is the nurse here ? or is there no one in the room but you ? "
i assured her we were alone .
" well , i have twice done you a wrong which i regret now . one was in breaking the promise which i gave my husband to bring you up as my own child ; the other-- " she stopped .
" after all , it is of no great importance , perhaps , " she murmured to herself : " and then i may get better ; and to humble myself so to her is painful . "
she made an effort to alter her position , but failed : her face changed ; she seemed to experience some inward sensation--the precursor , perhaps , of the last pang .
" well , i must get it over .
eternity is before me : i had better tell her.--go to my dressing-case , open it , and take out a letter you will see there . "
i obeyed her directions .
" read the letter , " she said .
it was short , and thus conceived : --
" madam , --will you have the goodness to send me the address of my niece , jane eyre , and to tell me how she is ?
it is my intention to write shortly and desire her to come to me at madeira .
providence has blessed my endeavours to secure a competency ; and as i am unmarried and childless , i wish to adopt her during my life , and bequeath her at my death whatever i may have to leave.--i am , madam , & c . , & c . ,
" john eyre , madeira . "
it was dated three years back .
" why did i never hear of this ? " i asked .
i could not forget your conduct to me , jane--the fury with which you once turned on me ; the tone in which you declared you abhorred me the worst of anybody in the world ; the unchildlike look and voice with which you affirmed that the very thought of me made you sick , and asserted that i had treated you with miserable cruelty . i could not forget my own sensations when you thus started up and poured out the venom of your mind : i felt fear as if an animal that i had struck or pushed had looked up at me with human eyes and cursed me in a man 's voice.--bring me some water !
oh , make haste ! "
" dear mrs. reed , " said i , as i offered her the draught she required , " think no more of all this , let it pass away from your mind . forgive me for my passionate language : i was a child then ; eight , nine years have passed since that day . "
she heeded nothing of what i said ; but when she had tasted the water and drawn breath , she went on thus--
" i tell you i could not forget it ; and i took my revenge : for you to be adopted by your uncle , and placed in a state of ease and comfort , was what i could not endure .
i wrote to him ; i said i was sorry for his disappointment , but jane eyre was dead : she had died of typhus fever at lowood .
now act as you please : write and contradict my assertion--expose my falsehood as soon as you like .
you were born , i think , to be my torment : my last hour is racked by the recollection of a deed which , but for you , i should never have been tempted to commit . "
" if you could but be persuaded to think no more of it , aunt , and to regard me with kindness and forgiveness "
" you have a very bad disposition , " said she , " and one to this day i feel it impossible to understand : how for nine years you could be patient and quiescent under any treatment , and in the tenth break out all fire and violence , i can never comprehend . "
" my disposition is not so bad as you think : i am passionate , but not vindictive . many a time , as a little child , i should have been glad to love you if you would have let me ; and i long earnestly to be reconciled to you now : kiss me , aunt . "
i approached my cheek to her lips : she would not touch it . she said i oppressed her by leaning over the bed , and again demanded water . as i laid her down--for i raised her and supported her on my arm while she drank--i covered her ice-cold and clammy hand with mine : the feeble fingers shrank from my touch--the glazing eyes shunned my gaze .
" love me , then , or hate me , as you will , " i said at last , " you have my full and free forgiveness : ask now for god 's , and be at peace . "
poor , suffering woman ! it was too late for her to make now the effort to change her habitual frame of mind : living , she had ever hated me--dying , she must hate me still .
the nurse now entered , and bessie followed . i yet lingered half-an-hour longer , hoping to see some sign of amity : but she gave none . she was fast relapsing into stupor ; nor did her mind again rally : at twelve o 'clock that night she died . i was not present to close her eyes , nor were either of her daughters .
they came to tell us the next morning that all was over . she was by that time laid out .
eliza and i went to look at her : georgiana , who had burst out into loud weeping , said she dared not go .
there was stretched sarah reed 's once robust and active frame , rigid and still : her eye of flint was covered with its cold lid ; her brow and strong traits wore yet the impress of her inexorable soul .
a strange and solemn object was that corpse to me .
i gazed on it with gloom and pain : nothing soft , nothing sweet , nothing pitying , or hopeful , or subduing did it inspire ; only a grating anguish for _ her _ woes--not _ my _ loss--and a sombre tearless dismay at the fearfulness of death in such a form .
eliza surveyed her parent calmly . after a silence of some minutes she observed--
" with her constitution she should have lived to a good old age : her life was shortened by trouble . "
and then a spasm constricted her mouth for an instant : as it passed away she turned and left the room , and so did i. neither of us had dropt a tear .
chapter xxii
mr. rochester had given me but one week 's leave of absence : yet a month elapsed before i quitted gateshead .
i wished to leave immediately after the funeral , but georgiana entreated me to stay till she could get off to london , whither she was now at last invited by her uncle , mr. gibson , who had come down to direct his sister 's interment and settle the family affairs .
georgiana said she dreaded being left alone with eliza ; from her she got neither sympathy in her dejection , support in her fears , nor aid in her preparations ; so i bore with her feeble-minded wailings and selfish lamentations as well as i could , and did my best in sewing for her and packing her dresses .
it is true , that while i worked , she would idle ; and i thought to myself , " if you and i were destined to live always together , cousin , we would commence matters on a different footing .
i should not settle tamely down into being the forbearing party ; i should assign you your share of labour , and compel you to accomplish it , or else it should be left undone : i should insist , also , on your keeping some of those drawling , half-insincere complaints hushed in your own breast . it is only because our connection happens to be very transitory , and comes at a peculiarly mournful season , that i consent thus to render it so patient and compliant on my part . " at last i saw georgiana off ; but now it was eliza 's turn to request me to stay another week .
her plans required all her time and attention , she said ; she was about to depart for some unknown bourne ; and all day long she stayed in her own room , her door bolted within , filling trunks , emptying drawers , burning papers , and holding no communication with any one . she wished me to look after the house , to see callers , and answer notes of condolence .
one morning she told me i was at liberty .
" and , " she added , " i am obliged to you for your valuable services and discreet conduct ! there is some difference between living with such an one as you and with georgiana : you perform your own part in life and burden no one .
to-morrow , " she continued , " i set out for the continent . i shall take up my abode in a religious house near lisle--a nunnery you would call it ; there i shall be quiet and unmolested .
i shall devote myself for a time to the examination of the roman catholic dogmas , and to a careful study of the workings of their system : if i find it to be , as i half suspect it is , the one best calculated to ensure the doing of all things decently and in order , i shall embrace the tenets of rome and probably take the veil . "
i neither expressed surprise at this resolution nor attempted to dissuade her from it .
" the vocation will fit you to a hair , " i thought : " much good may it do you ! "
when we parted , she said : " good-bye , cousin jane eyre ; i wish you well : you have some sense . "
i then returned : " you are not without sense , cousin eliza ; but what you have , i suppose , in another year will be walled up alive in a french convent .
however , it is not my business , and so it suits you , i don 't much care . "
" you are in the right , " said she ; and with these words we each went our separate way .
as i shall not have occasion to refer either to her or her sister again , i may as well mention here , that georgiana made an advantageous match with a wealthy worn-out man of fashion , and that eliza actually took the veil , and is at this day superior of the convent where she passed the period of her novitiate , and which she endowed with her fortune .
how people feel when they are returning home from an absence , long or short , i did not know : i had never experienced the sensation .
i had known what it was to come back to gateshead when a child after a long walk , to be scolded for looking cold or gloomy ; and later , what it was to come back from church to lowood , to long for a plenteous meal and a good fire , and to be unable to get either . neither of these returnings was very pleasant or desirable : no magnet drew me to a given point , increasing in its strength of attraction the nearer i came . the return to thornfield was yet to be tried .
my journey seemed tedious--very tedious : fifty miles one day , a night spent at an inn ; fifty miles the next day .
during the first twelve hours i thought of mrs. reed in her last moments ; i saw her disfigured and discoloured face , and heard her strangely altered voice . i mused on the funeral day , the coffin , the hearse , the black train of tenants and servants--few was the number of relatives--the gaping vault , the silent church , the solemn service .
then i thought of eliza and georgiana ; i beheld one the cynosure of a ball-room , the other the inmate of a convent cell ; and i dwelt on and analysed their separate peculiarities of person and character .
the evening arrival at the great town of--scattered these thoughts ; night gave them quite another turn : laid down on my traveller 's bed , i left reminiscence for anticipation .
i was going back to thornfield : but how long was i to stay there ?
not long ; of that i was sure .
i had heard from mrs. fairfax in the interim of my absence : the party at the hall was dispersed ; mr. rochester had left for london three weeks ago , but he was then expected to return in a fortnight .
mrs. fairfax surmised that he was gone to make arrangements for his wedding , as he had talked of purchasing a new carriage : she said the idea of his marrying miss ingram still seemed strange to her ; but from what everybody said , and from what she had herself seen , she could no longer doubt that the event would shortly take place .
" you would be strangely incredulous if you did doubt it , " was my mental comment . " i don 't doubt it . "
the question followed , " where was i to go ? " i dreamt of miss ingram all the night : in a vivid morning dream i saw her closing the gates of thornfield against me and pointing me out another road ; and mr. rochester looked on with his arms folded--smiling sardonically , as it seemed , at both her and me .
i had not notified to mrs. fairfax the exact day of my return ; for i did not wish either car or carriage to meet me at millcote . i proposed to walk the distance quietly by myself ; and very quietly , after leaving my box in the ostler 's care , did i slip away from the george inn , about six o 'clock of a june evening , and take the old road to thornfield : a road which lay chiefly through fields , and was now little frequented .
it was not a bright or splendid summer evening , though fair and soft : the haymakers were at work all along the road ; and the sky , though far from cloudless , was such as promised well for the future : its blue--where blue was visible--was mild and settled , and its cloud strata high and thin . the west , too , was warm : no watery gleam chilled it--it seemed as if there was a fire lit , an altar burning behind its screen of marbled vapour , and out of apertures shone a golden redness .
i felt glad as the road shortened before me : so glad that i stopped once to ask myself what that joy meant : and to remind reason that it was not to my home i was going , or to a permanent resting-place , or to a place where fond friends looked out for me and waited my arrival .
" mrs. fairfax will smile you a calm welcome , to be sure , " said i ; " and little adele will clap her hands and jump to see you : but you know very well you are thinking of another than they , and that he is not thinking of you . "
but what is so headstrong as youth ? what so blind as inexperience ? these affirmed that it was pleasure enough to have the privilege of again looking on mr. rochester , whether he looked on me or not ; and they added-- " hasten ! hasten ! be with him while you may : but a few more days or weeks , at most , and you are parted from him for ever ! "
and then i strangled a new-born agony--a deformed thing which i could not persuade myself to own and rear--and ran on .
they are making hay , too , in thornfield meadows : or rather , the labourers are just quitting their work , and returning home with their rakes on their shoulders , now , at the hour i arrive . i have but a field or two to traverse , and then i shall cross the road and reach the gates . how full the hedges are of roses ! but i have no time to gather any ; i want to be at the house .
i passed a tall briar , shooting leafy and flowery branches across the path ; i see the narrow stile with stone steps ; and i see--mr .
rochester sitting there , a book and a pencil in his hand ; he is writing .
well , he is not a ghost ; yet every nerve i have is unstrung : for a moment i am beyond my own mastery .
what does it mean ?
i did not think i should tremble in this way when i saw him , or lose my voice or the power of motion in his presence .
i will go back as soon as i can stir : i need not make an absolute fool of myself .
i know another way to the house . it does not signify if i knew twenty ways ; for he has seen me .
" hillo ! " he cries ; and he puts up his book and his pencil . " there you are !
come on , if you please . "
i suppose i do come on ; though in what fashion i know not ; being scarcely cognisant of my movements , and solicitous only to appear calm ; and , above all , to control the working muscles of my face--which i feel rebel insolently against my will , and struggle to express what i had resolved to conceal .
but i have a veil--it is down : i may make shift yet to behave with decent composure .
" and this is jane eyre ? are you coming from millcote , and on foot ?
yes--just one of your tricks : not to send for a carriage , and come clattering over street and road like a common mortal , but to steal into the vicinage of your home along with twilight , just as if you were a dream or a shade .
what the deuce have you done with yourself this last month ? "
" i have been with my aunt , sir , who is dead . "
" a true janian reply ! good angels be my guard !
she comes from the other world--from the abode of people who are dead ; and tells me so when she meets me alone here in the gloaming !
if i dared , i 'd touch you , to see if you are substance or shadow , you elf ! --but i 'd as soon offer to take hold of a blue _ ignis fatuus _ light in a marsh .
truant ! truant ! " he added , when he had paused an instant . " absent from me a whole month , and forgetting me quite , i 'll be sworn ! "
i knew there would be pleasure in meeting my master again , even though broken by the fear that he was so soon to cease to be my master , and by the knowledge that i was nothing to him : but there was ever in mr. rochester ( so at least i thought ) such a wealth of the power of communicating happiness , that to taste but of the crumbs he scattered to stray and stranger birds like me , was to feast genially .
his last words were balm : they seemed to imply that it imported something to him whether i forgot him or not . and he had spoken of thornfield as my home--would that it were my home !
he did not leave the stile , and i hardly liked to ask to go by .
i inquired soon if he had not been to london .
" yes ; i suppose you found that out by second-sight . "
" mrs. fairfax told me in a letter . "
" and did she inform you what i went to do ? "
" oh , yes , sir ! everybody knew your errand . "
" you must see the carriage , jane , and tell me if you don 't think it will suit mrs. rochester exactly ; and whether she won 't look like queen boadicea , leaning back against those purple cushions .
i wish , jane , i were a trifle better adapted to match with her externally . tell me now , fairy as you are--can 't you give me a charm , or a philter , or something of that sort , to make me a handsome man ? "
" it would be past the power of magic , sir ; " and , in thought , i added , " a loving eye is all the charm needed : to such you are handsome enough ; or rather your sternness has a power beyond beauty . "
mr. rochester had sometimes read my unspoken thoughts with an acumen to me incomprehensible : in the present instance he took no notice of my abrupt vocal response ; but he smiled at me with a certain smile he had of his own , and which he used but on rare occasions . he seemed to think it too good for common purposes : it was the real sunshine of feeling--he shed it over me now .
" pass , janet , " said he , making room for me to cross the stile : " go up home , and stay your weary little wandering feet at a friend 's threshold . "
all i had now to do was to obey him in silence : no need for me to colloquise further .
i got over the stile without a word , and meant to leave him calmly . an impulse held me fast--a force turned me round . i said--or something in me said for me , and in spite of me--
" thank you , mr. rochester , for your great kindness . i am strangely glad to get back again to you : and wherever you are is my home--my only home . "
i walked on so fast that even he could hardly have overtaken me had he tried .
little adele was half wild with delight when she saw me . mrs. fairfax received me with her usual plain friendliness . leah smiled , and even sophie bid me " bon soir " with glee .
this was very pleasant ; there is no happiness like that of being loved by your fellow-creatures , and feeling that your presence is an addition to their comfort .
i that evening shut my eyes resolutely against the future : i stopped my cars against the voice that kept warning me of near separation and coming grief .
when tea was over and mrs. fairfax had taken her knitting , and i had assumed a low seat near her , and adele , kneeling on the carpet , had nestled close up to me , and a sense of mutual affection seemed to surround us with a ring of golden peace , i uttered a silent prayer that we might not be parted far or soon ; but when , as we thus sat , mr. rochester entered , unannounced , and looking at us , seemed to take pleasure in the spectacle of a group so amicable--when he said he supposed the old lady was all right now that she had got her adopted daughter back again , and added that he saw adele was " prete a croquer sa petite maman anglaise " --i half ventured to hope that he would , even after his marriage , keep us together somewhere under the shelter of his protection , and not quite exiled from the sunshine of his presence .
a fortnight of dubious calm succeeded my return to thornfield hall .
nothing was said of the master 's marriage , and i saw no preparation going on for such an event .
almost every day i asked mrs. fairfax if she had yet heard anything decided : her answer was always in the negative .
once she said she had actually put the question to mr. rochester as to when he was going to bring his bride home ; but he had answered her only by a joke and one of his queer looks , and she could not tell what to make of him .
one thing specially surprised me , and that was , there were no journeyings backward and forward , no visits to ingram park : to be sure it was twenty miles off , on the borders of another county ; but what was that distance to an ardent lover ?
to so practised and indefatigable a horseman as mr. rochester , it would be but a morning 's ride .
i began to cherish hopes i had no right to conceive : that the match was broken off ; that rumour had been mistaken ; that one or both parties had changed their minds .
i used to look at my master 's face to see if it were sad or fierce ; but i could not remember the time when it had been so uniformly clear of clouds or evil feelings .
if , in the moments i and my pupil spent with him , i lacked spirits and sank into inevitable dejection , he became even gay . never had he called me more frequently to his presence ; never been kinder to me when there--and , alas ! never had i loved him so well .
chapter xxiii
a splendid midsummer shone over england : skies so pure , suns so radiant as were then seen in long succession , seldom favour even singly , our wave- girt land . it was as if a band of italian days had come from the south , like a flock of glorious passenger birds , and lighted to rest them on the cliffs of albion .
the hay was all got in ; the fields round thornfield were green and shorn ; the roads white and baked ; the trees were in their dark prime ; hedge and wood , full-leaved and deeply tinted , contrasted well with the sunny hue of the cleared meadows between .
on midsummer-eve , adele , weary with gathering wild strawberries in hay lane half the day , had gone to bed with the sun . i watched her drop asleep , and when i left her , i sought the garden .
it was now the sweetest hour of the twenty-four : -- " day its fervid fires had wasted , " and dew fell cool on panting plain and scorched summit .
where the sun had gone down in simple state--pure of the pomp of clouds--spread a solemn purple , burning with the light of red jewel and furnace flame at one point , on one hill-peak , and extending high and wide , soft and still softer , over half heaven .
the east had its own charm or fine deep blue , and its own modest gem , a casino and solitary star : soon it would boast the moon ; but she was yet beneath the horizon .
i walked a while on the pavement ; but a subtle , well-known scent--that of a cigar--stole from some window ; i saw the library casement open a handbreadth ; i knew i might be watched thence ; so i went apart into the orchard .
no nook in the grounds more sheltered and more eden-like ; it was full of trees , it bloomed with flowers : a very high wall shut it out from the court , on one side ; on the other , a beech avenue screened it from the lawn . at the bottom was a sunk fence ; its sole separation from lonely fields : a winding walk , bordered with laurels and terminating in a giant horse-chestnut , circled at the base by a seat , led down to the fence .
here one could wander unseen . while such honey-dew fell , such silence reigned , such gloaming gathered , i felt as if i could haunt such shade for ever ; but in threading the flower and fruit parterres at the upper part of the enclosure , enticed there by the light the now rising moon cast on this more open quarter , my step is stayed--not by sound , not by sight , but once more by a warning fragrance .
sweet-briar and southernwood , jasmine , pink , and rose have long been yielding their evening sacrifice of incense : this new scent is neither of shrub nor flower ; it is--i know it well--it is mr. rochester 's cigar . i look round and i listen .
i see trees laden with ripening fruit . i hear a nightingale warbling in a wood half a mile off ; no moving form is visible , no coming step audible ; but that perfume increases : i must flee .
i make for the wicket leading to the shrubbery , and i see mr. rochester entering . i step aside into the ivy recess ; he will not stay long : he will soon return whence he came , and if i sit still he will never see me .
but no--eventide is as pleasant to him as to me , and this antique garden as attractive ; and he strolls on , now lifting the gooseberry-tree branches to look at the fruit , large as plums , with which they are laden ; now taking a ripe cherry from the wall ; now stooping towards a knot of flowers , either to inhale their fragrance or to admire the dew-beads on their petals .
a great moth goes humming by me ; it alights on a plant at mr. rochester 's foot : he sees it , and bends to examine it .
" now , he has his back towards me , " thought i , " and he is occupied too ; perhaps , if i walk softly , i can slip away unnoticed . "
i trode on an edging of turf that the crackle of the pebbly gravel might not betray me : he was standing among the beds at a yard or two distant from where i had to pass ; the moth apparently engaged him .
" i shall get by very well , " i meditated .
as i crossed his shadow , thrown long over the garden by the moon , not yet risen high , he said quietly , without turning--
" jane , come and look at this fellow . "
i had made no noise : he had not eyes behind--could his shadow feel ?
" look at his wings , " said he , " he reminds me rather of a west indian insect ; one does not often see so large and gay a night-rover in england ; there ! he is flown . "
the moth roamed away .
i was sheepishly retreating also ; but mr. rochester followed me , and when we reached the wicket , he said--
" turn back : on so lovely a night it is a shame to sit in the house ; and surely no one can wish to go to bed while sunset is thus at meeting with moonrise . "
it is one of my faults , that though my tongue is sometimes prompt enough at an answer , there are times when it sadly fails me in framing an excuse ; and always the lapse occurs at some crisis , when a facile word or plausible pretext is specially wanted to get me out of painful embarrassment .
i did not like to walk at this hour alone with mr. rochester in the shadowy orchard ; but i could not find a reason to allege for leaving him .
i followed with lagging step , and thoughts busily bent on discovering a means of extrication ; but he himself looked so composed and so grave also , i became ashamed of feeling any confusion : the evil--if evil existent or prospective there was--seemed to lie with me only ; his mind was unconscious and quiet .
" jane , " he recommenced , as we entered the laurel walk , and slowly strayed down in the direction of the sunk fence and the horse-chestnut , " thornfield is a pleasant place in summer , is it not ? "
" yes , sir . "
" you must have become in some degree attached to the house , --you , who have an eye for natural beauties , and a good deal of the organ of adhesiveness ? "
" i am attached to it , indeed . "
" and though i don 't comprehend how it is , i perceive you have acquired a degree of regard for that foolish little child adele , too ; and even for simple dame fairfax ? "
" yes , sir ; in different ways , i have an affection for both . "
" and would be sorry to part with them ? "
" yes . "
" pity ! " he said , and sighed and paused .
" it is always the way of events in this life , " he continued presently : " no sooner have you got settled in a pleasant resting-place , than a voice calls out to you to rise and move on , for the hour of repose is expired . "
" must i move on , sir ? " i asked . " must i leave thornfield ? "
" i believe you must , jane . i am sorry , janet , but i believe indeed you must . "
this was a blow : but i did not let it prostrate me .
" well , sir , i shall be ready when the order to march comes . "
" it is come now--i must give it to-night . "
" then you _ are _ going to be married , sir ? "
" ex-act-ly--pre-cise-ly : with your usual acuteness , you have hit the nail straight on the head . "
" soon , sir ? "
" very soon , my--that is , miss eyre : and you 'll remember , jane , the first time i , or rumour , plainly intimated to you that it was my intention to put my old bachelor 's neck into the sacred noose , to enter into the holy estate of matrimony--to take miss ingram to my bosom , in short ( she 's an extensive armful : but that 's not to the point--one can 't have too much of such a very excellent thing as my beautiful blanche ) : well , as i was saying--listen to me , jane !
you 're not turning your head to look after more moths , are you ? that was only a lady-clock , child , ' flying away home . '
i wish to remind you that it was you who first said to me , with that discretion i respect in you--with that foresight , prudence , and humility which befit your responsible and dependent position--that in case i married miss ingram , both you and little adele had better trot forthwith .
i pass over the sort of slur conveyed in this suggestion on the character of my beloved ; indeed , when you are far away , janet , i 'll try to forget it : i shall notice only its wisdom ; which is such that i have made it my law of action .
adele must go to school ; and you , miss eyre , must get a new situation . "
" yes , sir , i will advertise immediately : and meantime , i suppose-- " i was going to say , " i suppose i may stay here , till i find another shelter to betake myself to : " but i stopped , feeling it would not do to risk a long sentence , for my voice was not quite under command .
" in about a month i hope to be a bridegroom , " continued mr. rochester ; " and in the interim , i shall myself look out for employment and an asylum for you . "
" thank you , sir ; i am sorry to give-- " " oh , no need to apologise !
i consider that when a dependent does her duty as well as you have done yours , she has a sort of claim upon her employer for any little assistance he can conveniently render her ; indeed i have already , through my future mother-in-law , heard of a place that i think will suit : it is to undertake the education of the five daughters of mrs. dionysius o 'gall of bitternutt lodge , connaught , ireland . you 'll like ireland , i think : they 're such warm-hearted people there , they say . "
" it is a long way off , sir . "
" no matter--a girl of your sense will not object to the voyage or the distance . "
" not the voyage , but the distance : and then the sea is a barrier-- "
" from what , jane ? "
" from england and from thornfield : and-- "
" well ? "
" from _ you _ , sir . "
i said this almost involuntarily , and , with as little sanction of free will , my tears gushed out . i did not cry so as to be heard , however ; i avoided sobbing .
the thought of mrs. o 'gall and bitternutt lodge struck cold to my heart ; and colder the thought of all the brine and foam , destined , as it seemed , to rush between me and the master at whose side i now walked , and coldest the remembrance of the wider ocean--wealth , caste , custom intervened between me and what i naturally and inevitably loved .
" it is a long way , " i again said .
" it is , to be sure ; and when you get to bitternutt lodge , connaught , ireland , i shall never see you again , jane : that 's morally certain . i never go over to ireland , not having myself much of a fancy for the country .
we have been good friends , jane ; have we not ? "
" yes , sir . "
" and when friends are on the eve of separation , they like to spend the little time that remains to them close to each other . come ! we 'll talk over the voyage and the parting quietly half-an-hour or so , while the stars enter into their shining life up in heaven yonder : here is the chestnut tree : here is the bench at its old roots .
come , we will sit there in peace to-night , though we should never more be destined to sit there together . "
he seated me and himself .
" it is a long way to ireland , janet , and i am sorry to send my little friend on such weary travels : but if i can 't do better , how is it to be helped ?
are you anything akin to me , do you think , jane ? "
i could risk no sort of answer by this time : my heart was still .
" because , " he said , " i sometimes have a queer feeling with regard to you--especially when you are near me , as now : it is as if i had a string somewhere under my left ribs , tightly and inextricably knotted to a similar string situated in the corresponding quarter of your little frame . and if that boisterous channel , and two hundred miles or so of land come broad between us , i am afraid that cord of communion will be snapt ; and then i 've a nervous notion i should take to bleeding inwardly .
as for you , --you 'd forget me . "
" that i _ never _ should , sir : you know-- " impossible to proceed .
" jane , do you hear that nightingale singing in the wood ? listen ! "
in listening , i sobbed convulsively ; for i could repress what i endured no longer ; i was obliged to yield , and i was shaken from head to foot with acute distress .
when i did speak , it was only to express an impetuous wish that i had never been born , or never come to thornfield .
" because you are sorry to leave it ? "
the vehemence of emotion , stirred by grief and love within me , was claiming mastery , and struggling for full sway , and asserting a right to predominate , to overcome , to live , rise , and reign at last : yes , --and to speak .
" i grieve to leave thornfield : i love thornfield : --i love it , because i have lived in it a full and delightful life , --momentarily at least . i have not been trampled on . i have not been petrified . i have not been buried with inferior minds , and excluded from every glimpse of communion with what is bright and energetic and high . i have talked , face to face , with what i reverence , with what i delight in , --with an original , a vigorous , an expanded mind . i have known you , mr. rochester ; and it strikes me with terror and anguish to feel i absolutely must be torn from you for ever .
" where do you see the necessity ? " he asked suddenly .
" where ? you , sir , have placed it before me . "
" in what shape ? "
" in the shape of miss ingram ; a noble and beautiful woman , --your bride . "
" my bride !
what bride ?
i have no bride ! "
" but you will have . "
" yes ; --i will ! --i will ! " he set his teeth .
" then i must go : --you have said it yourself . "
" no : you must stay ! i swear it--and the oath shall be kept . "
" i tell you i must go ! " i retorted , roused to something like passion .
" do you think i can stay to become nothing to you ? do you think i am an automaton ? --a machine without feelings ? and can bear to have my morsel of bread snatched from my lips , and my drop of living water dashed from my cup ? do you think , because i am poor , obscure , plain , and little , i am soulless and heartless ? you think wrong ! --i have as much soul as you , --and full as much heart !
and if god had gifted me with some beauty and much wealth , i should have made it as hard for you to leave me , as it is now for me to leave you .
i am not talking to you now through the medium of custom , conventionalities , nor even of mortal flesh ; --it is my spirit that addresses your spirit ; just as if both had passed through the grave , and we stood at god 's feet , equal , --as we are ! "
" as we are ! " repeated mr. rochester-- " so , " he added , enclosing me in his arms . gathering me to his breast , pressing his lips on my lips : " so , jane ! "
" yes , so , sir , " i rejoined : " and yet not so ; for you are a married man--or as good as a married man , and wed to one inferior to you--to one with whom you have no sympathy--whom i do not believe you truly love ; for i have seen and heard you sneer at her .
i would scorn such a union : therefore i am better than you--let me go ! "
" where , jane ?
to ireland ? "
" yes--to ireland . i have spoken my mind , and can go anywhere now . "
" jane , be still ; don 't struggle so , like a wild frantic bird that is rending its own plumage in its desperation . "
" i am no bird ; and no net ensnares me ; i am a free human being with an independent will , which i now exert to leave you . "
another effort set me at liberty , and i stood erect before him .
" and your will shall decide your destiny , " he said : " i offer you my hand , my heart , and a share of all my possessions . "
" you play a farce , which i merely laugh at . "
" i ask you to pass through life at my side--to be my second self , and best earthly companion . "
" for that fate you have already made your choice , and must abide by it . "
" jane , be still a few moments : you are over-excited : i will be still too . "
a waft of wind came sweeping down the laurel-walk , and trembled through the boughs of the chestnut : it wandered away--away--to an indefinite distance--it died .
the nightingale 's song was then the only voice of the hour : in listening to it , i again wept .
mr. rochester sat quiet , looking at me gently and seriously . some time passed before he spoke ; he at last said--
" come to my side , jane , and let us explain and understand one another . "
" i will never again come to your side : i am torn away now , and cannot return . "
" but , jane , i summon you as my wife : it is you only i intend to marry . "
i was silent : i thought he mocked me .
" come , jane--come hither . "
" your bride stands between us . "
he rose , and with a stride reached me .
" my bride is here , " he said , again drawing me to him , " because my equal is here , and my likeness .
jane , will you marry me ? "
still i did not answer , and still i writhed myself from his grasp : for i was still incredulous .
" do you doubt me , jane ? "
" entirely . "
" you have no faith in me ? "
" not a whit . "
" am i a liar in your eyes ? " he asked passionately . " little sceptic , you _ shall _ be convinced .
what love have i for miss ingram ? none : and that you know .
what love has she for me ?
none : as i have taken pains to prove : i caused a rumour to reach her that my fortune was not a third of what was supposed , and after that i presented myself to see the result ; it was coldness both from her and her mother . i would not--i could not--marry miss ingram .
you--you strange , you almost unearthly thing ! --i love as my own flesh . you--poor and obscure , and small and plain as you are--i entreat to accept me as a husband . "
" what , me ! " i ejaculated , beginning in his earnestness--and especially in his incivility--to credit his sincerity : " me who have not a friend in the world but you--if you are my friend : not a shilling but what you have given me ? "
" you , jane , i must have you for my own--entirely my own . will you be mine ?
say yes , quickly . " " mr. rochester , let me look at your face : turn to the moonlight . "
" why ? "
" because i want to read your countenance--turn ! "
" there ! you will find it scarcely more legible than a crumpled , scratched page . read on : only make haste , for i suffer . "
his face was very much agitated and very much flushed , and there were strong workings in the features , and strange gleams in the eyes .
" oh , jane , you torture me ! " he exclaimed . " with that searching and yet faithful and generous look , you torture me ! "
" how can i do that ? if you are true , and your offer real , my only feelings to you must be gratitude and devotion--they cannot torture . "
" gratitude ! " he ejaculated ; and added wildly-- " jane accept me quickly . say , edward--give me my name--edward--i will marry you . " " are you in earnest ? do you truly love me ?
do you sincerely wish me to be your wife ? " " i do ; and if an oath is necessary to satisfy you , i swear it . "
" then , sir , i will marry you . "
" edward--my little wife ! "
" dear edward ! "
" come to me--come to me entirely now , " said he ; and added , in his deepest tone , speaking in my ear as his cheek was laid on mine , " make my happiness--i will make yours . "
" god pardon me ! " he subjoined ere long ; " and man meddle not with me : i have her , and will hold her . "
" there is no one to meddle , sir . i have no kindred to interfere . "
" no--that is the best of it , " he said .
and if i had loved him less i should have thought his accent and look of exultation savage ; but , sitting by him , roused from the nightmare of parting--called to the paradise of union--i thought only of the bliss given me to drink in so abundant a flow .
again and again he said , " are you happy , jane ? " and again and again i answered , " yes . "
after which he murmured , " it will atone--it will atone .
have i not found her friendless , and cold , and comfortless ? will i not guard , and cherish , and solace her ?
is there not love in my heart , and constancy in my resolves ? it will expiate at god 's tribunal .
i know my maker sanctions what i do . for the world 's judgment--i wash my hands thereof .
for man 's opinion--i defy it . "
but what had befallen the night ? the moon was not yet set , and we were all in shadow : i could scarcely see my master 's face , near as i was .
and what ailed the chestnut tree ? it writhed and groaned ; while wind roared in the laurel walk , and came sweeping over us . " we must go in , " said mr. rochester : " the weather changes .
i could have sat with thee till morning , jane . " " and so , " thought i , " could i with you . " i should have said so , perhaps , but a livid , vivid spark leapt out of a cloud at which i was looking , and there was a crack , a crash , and a close rattling peal ; and i thought only of hiding my dazzled eyes against mr. rochester 's shoulder .
the rain rushed down . he hurried me up the walk , through the grounds , and into the house ; but we were quite wet before we could pass the threshold .
he was taking off my shawl in the hall , and shaking the water out of my loosened hair , when mrs. fairfax emerged from her room .
i did not observe her at first , nor did mr. rochester . the lamp was lit . the clock was on the stroke of twelve .
" hasten to take off your wet things , " said he ; " and before you go , good- night--good-night , my darling ! "
he kissed me repeatedly .
when i looked up , on leaving his arms , there stood the widow , pale , grave , and amazed .
i only smiled at her , and ran upstairs .
" explanation will do for another time , " thought i. still , when i reached my chamber , i felt a pang at the idea she should even temporarily misconstrue what she had seen . but joy soon effaced every other feeling ; and loud as the wind blew , near and deep as the thunder crashed , fierce and frequent as the lightning gleamed , cataract-like as the rain fell during a storm of two hours ' duration , i experienced no fear and little awe .
mr. rochester came thrice to my door in the course of it , to ask if i was safe and tranquil : and that was comfort , that was strength for anything .
before i left my bed in the morning , little adele came running in to tell me that the great horse-chestnut at the bottom of the orchard had been struck by lightning in the night , and half of it split away .
chapter xxiv
as i rose and dressed , i thought over what had happened , and wondered if it were a dream . i could not be certain of the reality till i had seen mr. rochester again , and heard him renew his words of love and promise .
while arranging my hair , i looked at my face in the glass , and felt it was no longer plain : there was hope in its aspect and life in its colour ; and my eyes seemed as if they had beheld the fount of fruition , and borrowed beams from the lustrous ripple .
i had often been unwilling to look at my master , because i feared he could not be pleased at my look ; but i was sure i might lift my face to his now , and not cool his affection by its expression .
i took a plain but clean and light summer dress from my drawer and put it on : it seemed no attire had ever so well become me , because none had i ever worn in so blissful a mood .
i was not surprised , when i ran down into the hall , to see that a brilliant june morning had succeeded to the tempest of the night ; and to feel , through the open glass door , the breathing of a fresh and fragrant breeze . nature must be gladsome when i was so happy .
a beggar-woman and her little boy--pale , ragged objects both--were coming up the walk , and i ran down and gave them all the money i happened to have in my purse--some three or four shillings : good or bad , they must partake of my jubilee .
the rooks cawed , and blither birds sang ; but nothing was so merry or so musical as my own rejoicing heart .
mrs. fairfax surprised me by looking out of the window with a sad countenance , and saying gravely-- " miss eyre , will you come to breakfast ? "
during the meal she was quiet and cool : but i could not undeceive her then .
i must wait for my master to give explanations ; and so must she .
i ate what i could , and then i hastened upstairs . i met adele leaving the schoolroom .
" where are you going ?
it is time for lessons . " " mr. rochester has sent me away to the nursery . "
" where is he ? "
" in there , " pointing to the apartment she had left ; and i went in , and there he stood .
" come and bid me good-morning , " said he .
i gladly advanced ; and it was not merely a cold word now , or even a shake of the hand that i received , but an embrace and a kiss . it seemed natural : it seemed genial to be so well loved , so caressed by him .
" jane , you look blooming , and smiling , and pretty , " said he : " truly pretty this morning .
is this my pale , little elf ? is this my mustard- seed ?
this little sunny-faced girl with the dimpled cheek and rosy lips ; the satin-smooth hazel hair , and the radiant hazel eyes ? "
( i had green eyes , reader ; but you must excuse the mistake : for him they were new-dyed , i suppose . )
" it is jane eyre , sir . "
" soon to be jane rochester , " he added : " in four weeks , janet ; not a day more . do you hear that ? "
i did , and i could not quite comprehend it : it made me giddy . the feeling , the announcement sent through me , was something stronger than was consistent with joy--something that smote and stunned . it was , i think almost fear .
" you blushed , and now you are white , jane : what is that for ? "
" because you gave me a new name--jane rochester ; and it seems so strange . "
" yes , mrs. rochester , " said he ; " young mrs. rochester--fairfax rochester 's girl-bride . "
" it can never be , sir ; it does not sound likely . human beings never enjoy complete happiness in this world . i was not born for a different destiny to the rest of my species : to imagine such a lot befalling me is a fairy tale--a day-dream . "
" which i can and will realise . i shall begin to-day .
this morning i wrote to my banker in london to send me certain jewels he has in his keeping , --heirlooms for the ladies of thornfield . in a day or two i hope to pour them into your lap : for every privilege , every attention shall be yours that i would accord a peer 's daughter , if about to marry her . "
" oh , sir ! --never rain jewels ! i don 't like to hear them spoken of .
jewels for jane eyre sounds unnatural and strange : i would rather not have them . "
" i will myself put the diamond chain round your neck , and the circlet on your forehead , --which it will become : for nature , at least , has stamped her patent of nobility on this brow , jane ; and i will clasp the bracelets on these fine wrists , and load these fairy-like fingers with rings . "
" no , no , sir ! think of other subjects , and speak of other things , and in another strain . don 't address me as if i were a beauty ; i am your plain , quakerish governess . "
" you are a beauty in my eyes , and a beauty just after the desire of my heart , --delicate and aerial . "
" puny and insignificant , you mean .
you are dreaming , sir , --or you are sneering . for god 's sake don 't be ironical ! "
" i will make the world acknowledge you a beauty , too , " he went on , while i really became uneasy at the strain he had adopted , because i felt he was either deluding himself or trying to delude me .
" i will attire my jane in satin and lace , and she shall have roses in her hair ; and i will cover the head i love best with a priceless veil . "
" and then you won 't know me , sir ; and i shall not be your jane eyre any longer , but an ape in a harlequin 's jacket--a jay in borrowed plumes .
i would as soon see you , mr. rochester , tricked out in stage-trappings , as myself clad in a court-lady 's robe ; and i don 't call you handsome , sir , though i love you most dearly : far too dearly to flatter you . don 't flatter me . "
he pursued his theme , however , without noticing my deprecation .
" this very day i shall take you in the carriage to millcote , and you must choose some dresses for yourself .
i told you we shall be married in four weeks . the wedding is to take place quietly , in the church down below yonder ; and then i shall waft you away at once to town .
after a brief stay there , i shall bear my treasure to regions nearer the sun : to french vineyards and italian plains ; and she shall see whatever is famous in old story and in modern record : she shall taste , too , of the life of cities ; and she shall learn to value herself by just comparison with others . "
" shall i travel ? --and with you , sir ? "
" you shall sojourn at paris , rome , and naples : at florence , venice , and vienna : all the ground i have wandered over shall be re-trodden by you : wherever i stamped my hoof , your sylph 's foot shall step also .
ten years since , i flew through europe half mad ; with disgust , hate , and rage as my companions : now i shall revisit it healed and cleansed , with a very angel as my comforter . "
i laughed at him as he said this .
" i am not an angel , " i asserted ; " and i will not be one till i die : i will be myself .
mr. rochester , you must neither expect nor exact anything celestial of me--for you will not get it , any more than i shall get it of you : which i do not at all anticipate . "
" what do you anticipate of me ? "
" for a little while you will perhaps be as you are now , --a very little while ; and then you will turn cool ; and then you will be capricious ; and then you will be stern , and i shall have much ado to please you : but when you get well used to me , you will perhaps like me again , -- _ like _ me , i say , not _ love _ me .
i suppose your love will effervesce in six months , or less . i have observed in books written by men , that period assigned as the farthest to which a husband 's ardour extends . yet , after all , as a friend and companion , i hope never to become quite distasteful to my dear master . "
" distasteful ! and like you again ! i think i shall like you again , and yet again : and i will make you confess i do not only _ like _ , but _ love _ you--with truth , fervour , constancy . "
" yet are you not capricious , sir ? "
" to women who please me only by their faces , i am the very devil when i find out they have neither souls nor hearts--when they open to me a perspective of flatness , triviality , and perhaps imbecility , coarseness , and ill-temper : but to the clear eye and eloquent tongue , to the soul made of fire , and the character that bends but does not break--at once supple and stable , tractable and consistent--i am ever tender and true . "
" had you ever experience of such a character , sir ? did you ever love such an one ? "
" i love it now . "
" but before me : if i , indeed , in any respect come up to your difficult standard ? "
" i never met your likeness . jane , you please me , and you master me--you seem to submit , and i like the sense of pliancy you impart ; and while i am twining the soft , silken skein round my finger , it sends a thrill up my arm to my heart .
i am influenced--conquered ; and the influence is sweeter than i can express ; and the conquest i undergo has a witchery beyond any triumph i can win . why do you smile , jane ?
what does that inexplicable , that uncanny turn of countenance mean ? "
" i was thinking , sir ( you will excuse the idea ; it was involuntary ) , i was thinking of hercules and samson with their charmers-- "
" you were , you little elfish-- "
" hush , sir !
you don 't talk very wisely just now ; any more than those gentlemen acted very wisely . however , had they been married , they would no doubt by their severity as husbands have made up for their softness as suitors ; and so will you , i fear . i wonder how you will answer me a year hence , should i ask a favour it does not suit your convenience or pleasure to grant . "
" ask me something now , jane , --the least thing : i desire to be entreated-- "
" indeed i will , sir ; i have my petition all ready . "
" speak ! but if you look up and smile with that countenance , i shall swear concession before i know to what , and that will make a fool of me . "
" not at all , sir ; i ask only this : don 't send for the jewels , and don 't crown me with roses : you might as well put a border of gold lace round that plain pocket handkerchief you have there . "
" i might as well ' gild refined gold . ' i know it : your request is granted then--for the time . i will remand the order i despatched to my banker .
but you have not yet asked for anything ; you have prayed a gift to be withdrawn : try again . "
" well then , sir , have the goodness to gratify my curiosity , which is much piqued on one point . "
he looked disturbed .
" what ? what ? " he said hastily . " curiosity is a dangerous petition : it is well i have not taken a vow to accord every request-- "
" but there can be no danger in complying with this , sir . "
" utter it , jane : but i wish that instead of a mere inquiry into , perhaps , a secret , it was a wish for half my estate . " " now , king ahasuerus ! what do i want with half your estate ?
do you think i am a jew-usurer , seeking good investment in land ?
i would much rather have all your confidence . you will not exclude me from your confidence if you admit me to your heart ? "
" you are welcome to all my confidence that is worth having , jane ; but for god 's sake , don 't desire a useless burden ! don 't long for poison--don 't turn out a downright eve on my hands ! "
" why not , sir ? you have just been telling me how much you liked to be conquered , and how pleasant over-persuasion is to you .
don 't you think i had better take advantage of the confession , and begin and coax and entreat--even cry and be sulky if necessary--for the sake of a mere essay of my power ? "
" i dare you to any such experiment . encroach , presume , and the game is up . " " is it , sir ?
you soon give in . how stern you look now !
your eyebrows have become as thick as my finger , and your forehead resembles what , in some very astonishing poetry , i once saw styled , ' a blue-piled thunderloft . '
that will be your married look , sir , i suppose ? "
" if that will be _ your _ married look , i , as a christian , will soon give up the notion of consorting with a mere sprite or salamander .
but what had you to ask , thing , --out with it ? "
" there , you are less than civil now ; and i like rudeness a great deal better than flattery .
i had rather be a _ thing _ than an angel .
this is what i have to ask , --why did you take such pains to make me believe you wished to marry miss ingram ? "
" is that all ?
thank god it is no worse ! "
and now he unknit his black brows ; looked down , smiling at me , and stroked my hair , as if well pleased at seeing a danger averted .
" i think i may confess , " he continued , " even although i should make you a little indignant , jane--and i have seen what a fire-spirit you can be when you are indignant . you glowed in the cool moonlight last night , when you mutinied against fate , and claimed your rank as my equal . janet , by-the-bye , it was you who made me the offer . "
" of course i did . but to the point if you please , sir--miss ingram ? "
" well , i feigned courtship of miss ingram , because i wished to render you as madly in love with me as i was with you ; and i knew jealousy would be the best ally i could call in for the furtherance of that end . "
" excellent ! now you are small--not one whit bigger than the end of my little finger .
it was a burning shame and a scandalous disgrace to act in that way . did you think nothing of miss ingram 's feelings , sir ? "
" her feelings are concentrated in one--pride ; and that needs humbling .
were you jealous , jane ? "
" never mind , mr. rochester : it is in no way interesting to you to know that .
answer me truly once more . do you think miss ingram will not suffer from your dishonest coquetry ?
won 't she feel forsaken and deserted ? "
" impossible ! --when i told you how she , on the contrary , deserted me : the idea of my insolvency cooled , or rather extinguished , her flame in a moment . "
" you have a curious , designing mind , mr. rochester . i am afraid your principles on some points are eccentric . "
" my principles were never trained , jane : they may have grown a little awry for want of attention . "
" once again , seriously ; may i enjoy the great good that has been vouchsafed to me , without fearing that any one else is suffering the bitter pain i myself felt a while ago ? "
" that you may , my good little girl : there is not another being in the world has the same pure love for me as yourself--for i lay that pleasant unction to my soul , jane , a belief in your affection . "
i turned my lips to the hand that lay on my shoulder .
i loved him very much--more than i could trust myself to say--more than words had power to express .
" ask something more , " he said presently ; " it is my delight to be entreated , and to yield . "
i was again ready with my request .
" communicate your intentions to mrs. fairfax , sir : she saw me with you last night in the hall , and she was shocked . give her some explanation before i see her again . it pains me to be misjudged by so good a woman . "
" go to your room , and put on your bonnet , " he replied . " i mean you to accompany me to millcote this morning ; and while you prepare for the drive , i will enlighten the old lady 's understanding .
did she think , janet , you had given the world for love , and considered it well lost ? "
" i believe she thought i had forgotten my station , and yours , sir . "
" station ! station ! --your station is in my heart , and on the necks of those who would insult you , now or hereafter.--go. "
i was soon dressed ; and when i heard mr. rochester quit mrs. fairfax 's parlour , i hurried down to it .
the old lady , had been reading her morning portion of scripture--the lesson for the day ; her bible lay open before her , and her spectacles were upon it . her occupation , suspended by mr. rochester 's announcement , seemed now forgotten : her eyes , fixed on the blank wall opposite , expressed the surprise of a quiet mind stirred by unwonted tidings .
seeing me , she roused herself : she made a sort of effort to smile , and framed a few words of congratulation ; but the smile expired , and the sentence was abandoned unfinished . she put up her spectacles , shut the bible , and pushed her chair back from the table .
" i feel so astonished , " she began , " i hardly know what to say to you , miss eyre .
i have surely not been dreaming , have i ?
sometimes i half fall asleep when i am sitting alone and fancy things that have never happened . it has seemed to me more than once when i have been in a doze , that my dear husband , who died fifteen years since , has come in and sat down beside me ; and that i have even heard him call me by my name , alice , as he used to do .
now , can you tell me whether it is actually true that mr. rochester has asked you to marry him ?
don 't laugh at me . but i really thought he came in here five minutes ago , and said that in a month you would be his wife . "
" he has said the same thing to me , " i replied .
" he has !
do you believe him ?
have you accepted him ? "
" yes . "
she looked at me bewildered .
" i could never have thought it .
he is a proud man : all the rochesters were proud : and his father , at least , liked money . he , too , has always been called careful .
he means to marry you ? "
" he tells me so . "
she surveyed my whole person : in her eyes i read that they had there found no charm powerful enough to solve the enigma .
" it passes me ! " she continued ; " but no doubt , it is true since you say so .
how it will answer , i cannot tell : i really don 't know .
equality of position and fortune is often advisable in such cases ; and there are twenty years of difference in your ages . he might almost be your father . "
" no , indeed , mrs. fairfax ! " exclaimed i , nettled ; " he is nothing like my father ! no one , who saw us together , would suppose it for an instant . mr. rochester looks as young , and is as young , as some men at five-and- twenty . "
" is it really for love he is going to marry you ? " she asked .
i was so hurt by her coldness and scepticism , that the tears rose to my eyes .
" i am sorry to grieve you , " pursued the widow ; " but you are so young , and so little acquainted with men , i wished to put you on your guard .
it is an old saying that ' all is not gold that glitters ; ' and in this case i do fear there will be something found to be different to what either you or i expect . "
" why ? --am i a monster ? "
i said : " is it impossible that mr. rochester should have a sincere affection for me ? "
" no : you are very well ; and much improved of late ; and mr. rochester , i daresay , is fond of you . i have always noticed that you were a sort of pet of his . there are times when , for your sake , i have been a little uneasy at his marked preference , and have wished to put you on your guard : but i did not like to suggest even the possibility of wrong .
i knew such an idea would shock , perhaps offend you ; and you were so discreet , and so thoroughly modest and sensible , i hoped you might be trusted to protect yourself .
last night i cannot tell you what i suffered when i sought all over the house , and could find you nowhere , nor the master either ; and then , at twelve o 'clock , saw you come in with him . "
" well , never mind that now , " i interrupted impatiently ; " it is enough that all was right . "
" i hope all will be right in the end , " she said : " but believe me , you cannot be too careful .
try and keep mr. rochester at a distance : distrust yourself as well as him . gentlemen in his station are not accustomed to marry their governesses . "
i was growing truly irritated : happily , adele ran in .
" let me go , --let me go to millcote too ! " she cried . " mr. rochester won 't : though there is so much room in the new carriage . beg him to let me go mademoiselle . "
" that i will , adele ; " and i hastened away with her , glad to quit my gloomy monitress .
the carriage was ready : they were bringing it round to the front , and my master was pacing the pavement , pilot following him backwards and forwards .
" adele may accompany us , may she not , sir ? "
" i told her no . i 'll have no brats ! --i 'll have only you . "
" do let her go , mr. rochester , if you please : it would be better . "
" not it : she will be a restraint . " he was quite peremptory , both in look and voice .
the chill of mrs. fairfax 's warnings , and the damp of her doubts were upon me : something of unsubstantiality and uncertainty had beset my hopes . i half lost the sense of power over him .
i was about mechanically to obey him , without further remonstrance ; but as he helped me into the carriage , he looked at my face .
" what is the matter ? " he asked ; " all the sunshine is gone .
do you really wish the bairn to go ? will it annoy you if she is left behind ? "
" i would far rather she went , sir . "
" then off for your bonnet , and back like a flash of lightning ! " cried he to adele .
she obeyed him with what speed she might .
" after all , a single morning 's interruption will not matter much , " said he , " when i mean shortly to claim you--your thoughts , conversation , and company--for life . "
adele , when lifted in , commenced kissing me , by way of expressing her gratitude for my intercession : she was instantly stowed away into a corner on the other side of him .
she then peeped round to where i sat ; so stern a neighbour was too restrictive to him , in his present fractious mood , she dared whisper no observations , nor ask of him any information .
" let her come to me , " i entreated : " she will , perhaps , trouble you , sir : there is plenty of room on this side . "
he handed her over as if she had been a lapdog .
" i 'll send her to school yet , " he said , but now he was smiling .
adele heard him , and asked if she was to go to school " sans mademoiselle ? "
" yes , " he replied , " absolutely sans mademoiselle ; for i am to take mademoiselle to the moon , and there i shall seek a cave in one of the white valleys among the volcano-tops , and mademoiselle shall live with me there , and only me . "
" she will have nothing to eat : you will starve her , " observed adele .
" i shall gather manna for her morning and night : the plains and hillsides in the moon are bleached with manna , adele . "
" she will want to warm herself : what will she do for a fire ? "
" fire rises out of the lunar mountains : when she is cold , i 'll carry her up to a peak , and lay her down on the edge of a crater . "
" oh , qu ' elle y sera mal--peu comfortable !
and her clothes , they will wear out : how can she get new ones ? "
mr. rochester professed to be puzzled .
" hem ! " said he . " what would you do , adele ?
cudgel your brains for an expedient .
how would a white or a pink cloud answer for a gown , do you think ? and one could cut a pretty enough scarf out of a rainbow . "
" she is far better as she is , " concluded adele , after musing some time : " besides , she would get tired of living with only you in the moon .
if i were mademoiselle , i would never consent to go with you . "
" she has consented : she has pledged her word . "
" but you can 't get her there ; there is no road to the moon : it is all air ; and neither you nor she can fly . "
" adele , look at that field . "
we were now outside thornfield gates , and bowling lightly along the smooth road to millcote , where the dust was well laid by the thunderstorm , and , where the low hedges and lofty timber trees on each side glistened green and rain-refreshed .
" in that field , adele , i was walking late one evening about a fortnight since--the evening of the day you helped me to make hay in the orchard meadows ; and , as i was tired with raking swaths , i sat down to rest me on a stile ; and there i took out a little book and a pencil , and began to write about a misfortune that befell me long ago , and a wish i had for happy days to come : i was writing away very fast , though daylight was fading from the leaf , when something came up the path and stopped two yards off me .
i looked at it . it was a little thing with a veil of gossamer on its head .
i beckoned it to come near me ; it stood soon at my knee . i never spoke to it , and it never spoke to me , in words ; but i read its eyes , and it read mine ; and our speechless colloquy was to this effect--
" it was a fairy , and come from elf-land , it said ; and its errand was to make me happy : i must go with it out of the common world to a lonely place--such as the moon , for instance--and it nodded its head towards her horn , rising over hay-hill : it told me of the alabaster cave and silver vale where we might live .
i said i should like to go ; but reminded it , as you did me , that i had no wings to fly .
" ' oh , ' returned the fairy , ' that does not signify ! here is a talisman will remove all difficulties ; ' and she held out a pretty gold ring .
'put it , ' she said , ' on the fourth finger of my left hand , and i am yours , and you are mine ; and we shall leave earth , and make our own heaven yonder . '
she nodded again at the moon .
the ring , adele , is in my breeches-pocket , under the disguise of a sovereign : but i mean soon to change it to a ring again . "
" but what has mademoiselle to do with it ?
i don 't care for the fairy : you said it was mademoiselle you would take to the moon ? "
" mademoiselle is a fairy , " he said , whispering mysteriously .
whereupon i told her not to mind his badinage ; and she , on her part , evinced a fund of genuine french scepticism : denominating mr. rochester " un vrai menteur , " and assuring him that she made no account whatever of his " contes de fee , " and that " du reste , il n 'y avait pas de fees , et quand meme il y en avait : " she was sure they would never appear to him , nor ever give him rings , or offer to live with him in the moon .
the hour spent at millcote was a somewhat harassing one to me .
mr. rochester obliged me to go to a certain silk warehouse : there i was ordered to choose half-a-dozen dresses . i hated the business , i begged leave to defer it : no--it should be gone through with now .
by dint of entreaties expressed in energetic whispers , i reduced the half-dozen to two : these however , he vowed he would select himself .
with anxiety i watched his eye rove over the gay stores : he fixed on a rich silk of the most brilliant amethyst dye , and a superb pink satin .
i told him in a new series of whispers , that he might as well buy me a gold gown and a silver bonnet at once : i should certainly never venture to wear his choice .
with infinite difficulty , for he was stubborn as a stone , i persuaded him to make an exchange in favour of a sober black satin and pearl-grey silk .
" it might pass for the present , " he said ; " but he would yet see me glittering like a parterre . "
glad was i to get him out of the silk warehouse , and then out of a jewellers shop : the more he bought me , the more my cheek burned with a sense of annoyance and degradation .
as we re-entered the carriage , and i sat back feverish and fagged , i remembered what , in the hurry of events , dark and bright , i had wholly forgotten--the letter of my uncle , john eyre , to mrs. reed : his intention to adopt me and make me his legatee .
" it would , indeed , be a relief , " i thought , " if i had ever so small an independency ; i never can bear being dressed like a doll by mr. rochester , or sitting like a second danae with the golden shower falling daily round me .
i will write to madeira the moment i get home , and tell my uncle john i am going to be married , and to whom : if i had but a prospect of one day bringing mr. rochester an accession of fortune , i could better endure to be kept by him now . "
and somewhat relieved by this idea ( which i failed not to execute that day ) , i ventured once more to meet my master 's and lover 's eye , which most pertinaciously sought mine , though i averted both face and gaze . he smiled ; and i thought his smile was such as a sultan might , in a blissful and fond moment , bestow on a slave his gold and gems had enriched : i crushed his hand , which was ever hunting mine , vigorously , and thrust it back to him red with the passionate pressure .
" you need not look in that way , " i said ; " if you do , i 'll wear nothing but my old lowood frocks to the end of the chapter . i 'll be married in this lilac gingham : you may make a dressing-gown for yourself out of the pearl-grey silk , and an infinite series of waistcoats out of the black satin . " he chuckled ; he rubbed his hands .
" oh , it is rich to see and hear her ? " he exclaimed .
" is she original ? is she piquant ? i would not exchange this one little english girl for the grand turk 's whole seraglio , gazelle- eyes , houri forms , and all ! "
the eastern allusion bit me again .
" i 'll not stand you an inch in the stead of a seraglio , " i said ; " so don 't consider me an equivalent for one . if you have a fancy for anything in that line , away with you , sir , to the bazaars of stamboul without delay , and lay out in extensive slave- purchases some of that spare cash you seem at a loss to spend satisfactorily here . "
" and what will you do , janet , while i am bargaining for so many tons of flesh and such an assortment of black eyes ? "
" i 'll be preparing myself to go out as a missionary to preach liberty to them that are enslaved--your harem inmates amongst the rest . i 'll get admitted there , and i 'll stir up mutiny ; and you , three-tailed bashaw as you are , sir , shall in a trice find yourself fettered amongst our hands : nor will i , for one , consent to cut your bonds till you have signed a charter , the most liberal that despot ever yet conferred . "
" i would consent to be at your mercy , jane . "
" i would have no mercy , mr. rochester , if you supplicated for it with an eye like that . while you looked so , i should be certain that whatever charter you might grant under coercion , your first act , when released , would be to violate its conditions . "
" why , jane , what would you have ?
i fear you will compel me to go through a private marriage ceremony , besides that performed at the altar .
you will stipulate , i see , for peculiar terms--what will they be ? "
" i only want an easy mind , sir ; not crushed by crowded obligations .
do you remember what you said of celine varens ? --of the diamonds , the cashmeres you gave her ?
i will not be your english celine varens . i shall continue to act as adele 's governess ; by that i shall earn my board and lodging , and thirty pounds a year besides . i 'll furnish my own wardrobe out of that money , and you shall give me nothing but-- "
" well , but what ? "
" your regard ; and if i give you mine in return , that debt will be quit . "
" well , for cool native impudence and pure innate pride , you haven 't your equal , " said he .
we were now approaching thornfield .
" will it please you to dine with me to-day ? " he asked , as we re-entered the gates .
" no , thank you , sir . "
" and what for , ' no , thank you ? ' if one may inquire . "
" i never have dined with you , sir : and i see no reason why i should now : till-- "
" till what ? you delight in half-phrases . "
" till i can 't help it . "
" do you suppose i eat like an ogre or a ghoul , that you dread being the companion of my repast ? "
" i have formed no supposition on the subject , sir ; but i want to go on as usual for another month . "
" you will give up your governessing slavery at once . "
" indeed , begging your pardon , sir , i shall not . i shall just go on with it as usual .
i shall keep out of your way all day , as i have been accustomed to do : you may send for me in the evening , when you feel disposed to see me , and i 'll come then ; but at no other time . "
" i want a smoke , jane , or a pinch of snuff , to comfort me under all this , ' pour me donner une contenance , ' as adele would say ; and unfortunately i have neither my cigar-case , nor my snuff-box .
but listen--whisper . it is your time now , little tyrant , but it will be mine presently ; and when once i have fairly seized you , to have and to hold , i 'll just--figuratively speaking--attach you to a chain like this " ( touching his watch-guard ) . " yes , bonny wee thing , i 'll wear you in my bosom , lest my jewel i should tyne . "
he said this as he helped me to alight from the carriage , and while he afterwards lifted out adele , i entered the house , and made good my retreat upstairs .
he duly summoned me to his presence in the evening .
i had prepared an occupation for him ; for i was determined not to spend the whole time in a _ tete-a-tete _ conversation . i remembered his fine voice ; i knew he liked to sing--good singers generally do .
i was no vocalist myself , and , in his fastidious judgment , no musician , either ; but i delighted in listening when the performance was good .
no sooner had twilight , that hour of romance , began to lower her blue and starry banner over the lattice , than i rose , opened the piano , and entreated him , for the love of heaven , to give me a song .
he said i was a capricious witch , and that he would rather sing another time ; but i averred that no time was like the present .
" did i like his voice ? " he asked .
" very much . "
i was not fond of pampering that susceptible vanity of his ; but for once , and from motives of expediency , i would e 'en soothe and stimulate it .
" then , jane , you must play the accompaniment . "
" very well , sir , i will try . "
i did try , but was presently swept off the stool and denominated " a little bungler . " being pushed unceremoniously to one side--which was precisely what i wished--he usurped my place , and proceeded to accompany himself : for he could play as well as sing .
i hied me to the window-recess . and while i sat there and looked out on the still trees and dim lawn , to a sweet air was sung in mellow tones the following strain : --
" the truest love that ever heart felt at its kindled core , did through each vein , in quickened start , the tide of being pour .
her coming was my hope each day , her parting was my pain ; the chance that did her steps delay was ice in every vein .
i dreamed it would be nameless bliss , as i loved , loved to be ; and to this object did i press as blind as eagerly .
but wide as pathless was the space that lay our lives between , and dangerous as the foamy race of ocean-surges green .
and haunted as a robber-path through wilderness or wood ; for might and right , and woe and wrath , between our spirits stood .
i dangers dared ; i hindrance scorned ; i omens did defy : whatever menaced , harassed , warned , i passed impetuous by .
on sped my rainbow , fast as light ; i flew as in a dream ; for glorious rose upon my sight that child of shower and gleam .
still bright on clouds of suffering dim shines that soft , solemn joy ; nor care i now , how dense and grim disasters gather nigh .
i care not in this moment sweet , though all i have rushed o 'er should come on pinion , strong and fleet , proclaiming vengeance sore :
though haughty hate should strike me down , right , bar approach to me , and grinding might , with furious frown , swear endless enmity .
my love has placed her little hand with noble faith in mine , and vowed that wedlock 's sacred band our nature shall entwine .
my love has sworn , with sealing kiss , with me to live--to die ; i have at last my nameless bliss . as i love--loved am i ! "
he rose and came towards me , and i saw his face all kindled , and his full falcon-eye flashing , and tenderness and passion in every lineament .
i quailed momentarily--then i rallied . soft scene , daring demonstration , i would not have ; and i stood in peril of both : a weapon of defence must be prepared--i whetted my tongue : as he reached me , i asked with asperity , " whom he was going to marry now ? "
" that was a strange question to be put by his darling jane . "
" indeed ! i considered it a very natural and necessary one : he had talked of his future wife dying with him .
what did he mean by such a pagan idea ? _ i _ had no intention of dying with him--he might depend on that . "
" oh , all he longed , all he prayed for , was that i might live with him ! death was not for such as i. "
" indeed it was : i had as good a right to die when my time came as he had : but i should bide that time , and not be hurried away in a suttee . "
" would i forgive him for the selfish idea , and prove my pardon by a reconciling kiss ? "
" no : i would rather be excused . "
here i heard myself apostrophised as a " hard little thing ; " and it was added , " any other woman would have been melted to marrow at hearing such stanzas crooned in her praise . "
i assured him i was naturally hard--very flinty , and that he would often find me so ; and that , moreover , i was determined to show him divers rugged points in my character before the ensuing four weeks elapsed : he should know fully what sort of a bargain he had made , while there was yet time to rescind it .
" would i be quiet and talk rationally ? "
" i would be quiet if he liked , and as to talking rationally , i flattered myself i was doing that now . "
he fretted , pished , and pshawed .
" very good , " i thought ; " you may fume and fidget as you please : but this is the best plan to pursue with you , i am certain .
i like you more than i can say ; but i 'll not sink into a bathos of sentiment : and with this needle of repartee i 'll keep you from the edge of the gulf too ; and , moreover , maintain by its pungent aid that distance between you and myself most conducive to our real mutual advantage . "
from less to more , i worked him up to considerable irritation ; then , after he had retired , in dudgeon , quite to the other end of the room , i got up , and saying , " i wish you good-night , sir , " in my natural and wonted respectful manner , i slipped out by the side-door and got away .
the system thus entered on , i pursued during the whole season of probation ; and with the best success .
he was kept , to be sure , rather cross and crusty ; but on the whole i could see he was excellently entertained , and that a lamb-like submission and turtle-dove sensibility , while fostering his despotism more , would have pleased his judgment , satisfied his common-sense , and even suited his taste less .
in other people 's presence i was , as formerly , deferential and quiet ; any other line of conduct being uncalled for : it was only in the evening conferences i thus thwarted and afflicted him .
he continued to send for me punctually the moment the clock struck seven ; though when i appeared before him now , he had no such honeyed terms as " love " and " darling " on his lips : the best words at my service were " provoking puppet , " " malicious elf , " " sprite , " " changeling , " & c .
for caresses , too , i now got grimaces ; for a pressure of the hand , a pinch on the arm ; for a kiss on the cheek , a severe tweak of the ear . it was all right : at present i decidedly preferred these fierce favours to anything more tender .
mrs. fairfax , i saw , approved me : her anxiety on my account vanished ; therefore i was certain i did well .
meantime , mr. rochester affirmed i was wearing him to skin and bone , and threatened awful vengeance for my present conduct at some period fast coming .
i laughed in my sleeve at his menaces . " i can keep you in reasonable check now , " i reflected ; " and i don 't doubt to be able to do it hereafter : if one expedient loses its virtue , another must be devised . "
yet after all my task was not an easy one ; often i would rather have pleased than teased him .
my future husband was becoming to me my whole world ; and more than the world : almost my hope of heaven . he stood between me and every thought of religion , as an eclipse intervenes between man and the broad sun .
i could not , in those days , see god for his creature : of whom i had made an idol .
chapter xxv
the month of courtship had wasted : its very last hours were being numbered .
there was no putting off the day that advanced--the bridal day ; and all preparations for its arrival were complete . _ i _ , at least , had nothing more to do : there were my trunks , packed , locked , corded , ranged in a row along the wall of my little chamber ; to-morrow , at this time , they would be far on their road to london : and so should i ( d.v. ) , --or rather , not i , but one jane rochester , a person whom as yet i knew not .
the cards of address alone remained to nail on : they lay , four little squares , in the drawer .
mr. rochester had himself written the direction , " mrs. rochester , --- hotel , london , " on each : i could not persuade myself to affix them , or to have them affixed .
mrs. rochester !
she did not exist : she would not be born till to-morrow , some time after eight o 'clock a.m. ; and i would wait to be assured she had come into the world alive before i assigned to her all that property .
it was enough that in yonder closet , opposite my dressing-table , garments said to be hers had already displaced my black stuff lowood frock and straw bonnet : for not to me appertained that suit of wedding raiment ; the pearl-coloured robe , the vapoury veil pendent from the usurped portmanteau .
i shut the closet to conceal the strange , wraith-like apparel it contained ; which , at this evening hour--nine o 'clock--gave out certainly a most ghostly shimmer through the shadow of my apartment .
" i will leave you by yourself , white dream , " i said .
" i am feverish : i hear the wind blowing : i will go out of doors and feel it . "
it was not only the hurry of preparation that made me feverish ; not only the anticipation of the great change--the new life which was to commence to-morrow : both these circumstances had their share , doubtless , in producing that restless , excited mood which hurried me forth at this late hour into the darkening grounds : but a third cause influenced my mind more than they .
i had at heart a strange and anxious thought . something had happened which i could not comprehend ; no one knew of or had seen the event but myself : it had taken place the preceding night .
mr. rochester that night was absent from home ; nor was he yet returned : business had called him to a small estate of two or three farms he possessed thirty miles off--business it was requisite he should settle in person , previous to his meditated departure from england .
i waited now his return ; eager to disburthen my mind , and to seek of him the solution of the enigma that perplexed me .
stay till he comes , reader ; and , when i disclose my secret to him , you shall share the confidence .
i sought the orchard , driven to its shelter by the wind , which all day had blown strong and full from the south , without , however , bringing a speck of rain .
instead of subsiding as night drew on , it seemed to augment its rush and deepen its roar : the trees blew steadfastly one way , never writhing round , and scarcely tossing back their boughs once in an hour ; so continuous was the strain bending their branchy heads northward--the clouds drifted from pole to pole , fast following , mass on mass : no glimpse of blue sky had been visible that july day .
it was not without a certain wild pleasure i ran before the wind , delivering my trouble of mind to the measureless air-torrent thundering through space .
descending the laurel walk , i faced the wreck of the chestnut-tree ; it stood up black and riven : the trunk , split down the centre , gasped ghastly .
the cloven halves were not broken from each other , for the firm base and strong roots kept them unsundered below ; though community of vitality was destroyed--the sap could flow no more : their great boughs on each side were dead , and next winter 's tempests would be sure to fell one or both to earth : as yet , however , they might be said to form one tree--a ruin , but an entire ruin .
" you did right to hold fast to each other , " i said : as if the monster- splinters were living things , and could hear me .
" i think , scathed as you look , and charred and scorched , there must be a little sense of life in you yet , rising out of that adhesion at the faithful , honest roots : you will never have green leaves more--never more see birds making nests and singing idyls in your boughs ; the time of pleasure and love is over with you : but you are not desolate : each of you has a comrade to sympathise with him in his decay . "
as i looked up at them , the moon appeared momentarily in that part of the sky which filled their fissure ; her disk was blood-red and half overcast ; she seemed to throw on me one bewildered , dreary glance , and buried herself again instantly in the deep drift of cloud .
the wind fell , for a second , round thornfield ; but far away over wood and water , poured a wild , melancholy wail : it was sad to listen to , and i ran off again .
here and there i strayed through the orchard , gathered up the apples with which the grass round the tree roots was thickly strewn ; then i employed myself in dividing the ripe from the unripe ; i carried them into the house and put them away in the store-room . then i repaired to the library to ascertain whether the fire was lit , for , though summer , i knew on such a gloomy evening mr. rochester would like to see a cheerful hearth when he came in : yes , the fire had been kindled some time , and burnt well .
i placed his arm-chair by the chimney-corner : i wheeled the table near it : i let down the curtain , and had the candles brought in ready for lighting .
more restless than ever , when i had completed these arrangements i could not sit still , nor even remain in the house : a little time-piece in the room and the old clock in the hall simultaneously struck ten .
" how late it grows ! " i said . " i will run down to the gates : it is moonlight at intervals ; i can see a good way on the road . he may be coming now , and to meet him will save some minutes of suspense . "
the wind roared high in the great trees which embowered the gates ; but the road as far as i could see , to the right hand and the left , was all still and solitary : save for the shadows of clouds crossing it at intervals as the moon looked out , it was but a long pale line , unvaried by one moving speck .
a puerile tear dimmed my eye while i looked--a tear of disappointment and impatience ; ashamed of it , i wiped it away .
i lingered ; the moon shut herself wholly within her chamber , and drew close her curtain of dense cloud : the night grew dark ; rain came driving fast on the gale .
" i wish he would come ! i wish he would come ! " i exclaimed , seized with hypochondriac foreboding .
i had expected his arrival before tea ; now it was dark : what could keep him ?
had an accident happened ?
the event of last night again recurred to me .
i interpreted it as a warning of disaster . i feared my hopes were too bright to be realised ; and i had enjoyed so much bliss lately that i imagined my fortune had passed its meridian , and must now decline .
" well , i cannot return to the house , " i thought ; " i cannot sit by the fireside , while he is abroad in inclement weather : better tire my limbs than strain my heart ; i will go forward and meet him . "
i set out ; i walked fast , but not far : ere i had measured a quarter of a mile , i heard the tramp of hoofs ; a horseman came on , full gallop ; a dog ran by his side .
away with evil presentiment ! it was he : here he was , mounted on mesrour , followed by pilot .
he saw me ; for the moon had opened a blue field in the sky , and rode in it watery bright : he took his hat off , and waved it round his head . i now ran to meet him .
" there ! " he exclaimed , as he stretched out his hand and bent from the saddle : " you can 't do without me , that is evident . step on my boot-toe ; give me both hands : mount ! "
i obeyed : joy made me agile : i sprang up before him . a hearty kissing i got for a welcome , and some boastful triumph , which i swallowed as well as i could .
he checked himself in his exultation to demand , " but is there anything the matter , janet , that you come to meet me at such an hour ?
is there anything wrong ? "
" no , but i thought you would never come . i could not bear to wait in the house for you , especially with this rain and wind . "
" rain and wind , indeed !
yes , you are dripping like a mermaid ; pull my cloak round you : but i think you are feverish , jane : both your cheek and hand are burning hot .
i ask again , is there anything the matter ? "
" nothing now ; i am neither afraid nor unhappy . "
" then you have been both ? "
" rather : but i 'll tell you all about it by-and-bye , sir ; and i daresay you will only laugh at me for my pains . "
" i 'll laugh at you heartily when to-morrow is past ; till then i dare not : my prize is not certain .
this is you , who have been as slippery as an eel this last month , and as thorny as a briar-rose ? i could not lay a finger anywhere but i was pricked ; and now i seem to have gathered up a stray lamb in my arms .
you wandered out of the fold to seek your shepherd , did you , jane ? "
" i wanted you : but don 't boast .
here we are at thornfield : now let me get down . "
he landed me on the pavement . as john took his horse , and he followed me into the hall , he told me to make haste and put something dry on , and then return to him in the library ; and he stopped me , as i made for the staircase , to extort a promise that i would not be long : nor was i long ; in five minutes i rejoined him .
" take a seat and bear me company , jane : please god , it is the last meal but one you will eat at thornfield hall for a long time . "
i sat down near him , but told him i could not eat .
" is it because you have the prospect of a journey before you , jane ? is it the thoughts of going to london that takes away your appetite ? "
" i cannot see my prospects clearly to-night , sir ; and i hardly know what thoughts i have in my head . everything in life seems unreal . "
" except me : i am substantial enough--touch me . "
" you , sir , are the most phantom-like of all : you are a mere dream . "
he held out his hand , laughing .
" is that a dream ? " said he , placing it close to my eyes .
he had a rounded , muscular , and vigorous hand , as well as a long , strong arm .
" yes ; though i touch it , it is a dream , " said i , as i put it down from before my face .
" sir , have you finished supper ? "
" yes , jane . "
i rang the bell and ordered away the tray .
when we were again alone , i stirred the fire , and then took a low seat at my master 's knee .
" it is near midnight , " i said .
" yes : but remember , jane , you promised to wake with me the night before my wedding . "
" i did ; and i will keep my promise , for an hour or two at least : i have no wish to go to bed . "
" are all your arrangements complete ? "
" all , sir . "
" and on my part likewise , " he returned , " i have settled everything ; and we shall leave thornfield to-morrow , within half-an-hour after our return from church . "
" very well , sir . "
" with what an extraordinary smile you uttered that word-- ' very well , ' jane ! what a bright spot of colour you have on each cheek ! and how strangely your eyes glitter !
are you well ? "
" i believe i am . "
what is the matter ?
tell me what you feel . "
" i could not , sir : no words could tell you what i feel .
i wish this present hour would never end : who knows with what fate the next may come charged ? "
" this is hypochondria , jane . you have been over-excited , or over-fatigued . "
" do you , sir , feel calm and happy ? "
" calm ? --no : but happy--to the heart 's core . "
i looked up at him to read the signs of bliss in his face : it was ardent and flushed .
" give me your confidence , jane , " he said : " relieve your mind of any weight that oppresses it , by imparting it to me .
what do you fear ? --that i shall not prove a good husband ? "
" it is the idea farthest from my thoughts . "
" are you apprehensive of the new sphere you are about to enter ? --of the new life into which you are passing ? "
" no . "
" you puzzle me , jane : your look and tone of sorrowful audacity perplex and pain me . i want an explanation . "
" then , sir , listen .
you were from home last night ? "
" i was : i know that ; and you hinted a while ago at something which had happened in my absence : --nothing , probably , of consequence ; but , in short , it has disturbed you . let me hear it .
mrs. fairfax has said something , perhaps ? or you have overheard the servants talk ? --your sensitive self-respect has been wounded ? "
" no , sir . "
it struck twelve--i waited till the time-piece had concluded its silver chime , and the clock its hoarse , vibrating stroke , and then i proceeded .
" all day yesterday i was very busy , and very happy in my ceaseless bustle ; for i am not , as you seem to think , troubled by any haunting fears about the new sphere , et cetera : i think it a glorious thing to have the hope of living with you , because i love you .
no , sir , don 't caress me now--let me talk undisturbed .
yesterday i trusted well in providence , and believed that events were working together for your good and mine : it was a fine day , if you recollect--the calmness of the air and sky forbade apprehensions respecting your safety or comfort on your journey .
i walked a little while on the pavement after tea , thinking of you ; and i beheld you in imagination so near me , i scarcely missed your actual presence .
i thought of the life that lay before me-- _ your _ life , sir--an existence more expansive and stirring than my own : as much more so as the depths of the sea to which the brook runs are than the shallows of its own strait channel .
i wondered why moralists call this world a dreary wilderness : for me it blossomed like a rose .
just at sunset , the air turned cold and the sky cloudy : i went in , sophie called me upstairs to look at my wedding-dress , which they had just brought ; and under it in the box i found your present--the veil which , in your princely extravagance , you sent for from london : resolved , i suppose , since i would not have jewels , to cheat me into accepting something as costly .
i smiled as i unfolded it , and devised how i would tease you about your aristocratic tastes , and your efforts to masque your plebeian bride in the attributes of a peeress . i thought how i would carry down to you the square of unembroidered blond i had myself prepared as a covering for my low-born head , and ask if that was not good enough for a woman who could bring her husband neither fortune , beauty , nor connections .
i saw plainly how you would look ; and heard your impetuous republican answers , and your haughty disavowal of any necessity on your part to augment your wealth , or elevate your standing , by marrying either a purse or a coronet . "
" how well you read me , you witch ! " interposed mr. rochester : " but what did you find in the veil besides its embroidery ?
did you find poison , or a dagger , that you look so mournful now ? "
" no , no , sir ; besides the delicacy and richness of the fabric , i found nothing save fairfax rochester 's pride ; and that did not scare me , because i am used to the sight of the demon .
but , sir , as it grew dark , the wind rose : it blew yesterday evening , not as it blows now--wild and high--but ' with a sullen , moaning sound ' far more eerie . i wished you were at home .
i came into this room , and the sight of the empty chair and fireless hearth chilled me .
for some time after i went to bed , i could not sleep--a sense of anxious excitement distressed me .
the gale still rising , seemed to my ear to muffle a mournful under-sound ; whether in the house or abroad i could not at first tell , but it recurred , doubtful yet doleful at every lull ; at last i made out it must be some dog howling at a distance .
i was glad when it ceased . on sleeping , i continued in dreams the idea of a dark and gusty night . i continued also the wish to be with you , and experienced a strange , regretful consciousness of some barrier dividing us .
during all my first sleep , i was following the windings of an unknown road ; total obscurity environed me ; rain pelted me ; i was burdened with the charge of a little child : a very small creature , too young and feeble to walk , and which shivered in my cold arms , and wailed piteously in my ear .
i thought , sir , that you were on the road a long way before me ; and i strained every nerve to overtake you , and made effort on effort to utter your name and entreat you to stop--but my movements were fettered , and my voice still died away inarticulate ; while you , i felt , withdrew farther and farther every moment . "
" and these dreams weigh on your spirits now , jane , when i am close to you ? little nervous subject !
forget visionary woe , and think only of real happiness !
you say you love me , janet : yes--i will not forget that ; and you cannot deny it . _ those _ words did not die inarticulate on your lips . i heard them clear and soft : a thought too solemn perhaps , but sweet as music--
'i think it is a glorious thing to have the hope of living with you , edward , because i love you . '
do you love me , jane ? --repeat it . "
" i do , sir--i do , with my whole heart . "
" well , " he said , after some minutes ' silence , " it is strange ; but that sentence has penetrated my breast painfully .
why ? i think because you said it with such an earnest , religious energy , and because your upward gaze at me now is the very sublime of faith , truth , and devotion : it is too much as if some spirit were near me .
look wicked , jane : as you know well how to look : coin one of your wild , shy , provoking smiles ; tell me you hate me--tease me , vex me ; do anything but move me : i would rather be incensed than saddened . "
" i will tease you and vex you to your heart 's content , when i have finished my tale : but hear me to the end . "
" i thought , jane , you had told me all . i thought i had found the source of your melancholy in a dream . "
i shook my head .
" what ! is there more ?
but i will not believe it to be anything important . i warn you of incredulity beforehand .
go on . "
the disquietude of his air , the somewhat apprehensive impatience of his manner , surprised me : but i proceeded .
" i dreamt another dream , sir : that thornfield hall was a dreary ruin , the retreat of bats and owls . i thought that of all the stately front nothing remained but a shell-like wall , very high and very fragile-looking . i wandered , on a moonlight night , through the grass- grown enclosure within : here i stumbled over a marble hearth , and there over a fallen fragment of cornice .
wrapped up in a shawl , i still carried the unknown little child : i might not lay it down anywhere , however tired were my arms--however much its weight impeded my progress , i must retain it .
i heard the gallop of a horse at a distance on the road ; i was sure it was you ; and you were departing for many years and for a distant country .
i climbed the thin wall with frantic perilous haste , eager to catch one glimpse of you from the top : the stones rolled from under my feet , the ivy branches i grasped gave way , the child clung round my neck in terror , and almost strangled me ; at last i gained the summit . i saw you like a speck on a white track , lessening every moment .
the blast blew so strong i could not stand .
i sat down on the narrow ledge ; i hushed the scared infant in my lap : you turned an angle of the road : i bent forward to take a last look ; the wall crumbled ; i was shaken ; the child rolled from my knee , i lost my balance , fell , and woke . "
" now , jane , that is all . "
" all the preface , sir ; the tale is yet to come .
on waking , a gleam dazzled my eyes ; i thought--oh , it is daylight !
but i was mistaken ; it was only candlelight .
sophie , i supposed , had come in . there was a light in the dressing-table , and the door of the closet , where , before going to bed , i had hung my wedding-dress and veil , stood open ; i heard a rustling there .
i asked , ' sophie , what are you doing ? '
no one answered ; but a form emerged from the closet ; it took the light , held it aloft , and surveyed the garments pendent from the portmanteau . ' sophie !
sophie ! ' i again cried : and still it was silent .
i had risen up in bed , i bent forward : first surprise , then bewilderment , came over me ; and then my blood crept cold through my veins .
mr. rochester , this was not sophie , it was not leah , it was not mrs. fairfax : it was not--no , i was sure of it , and am still--it was not even that strange woman , grace poole . "
" it must have been one of them , " interrupted my master .
" no , sir , i solemnly assure you to the contrary .
the shape standing before me had never crossed my eyes within the precincts of thornfield hall before ; the height , the contour were new to me . "
" describe it , jane . "
" it seemed , sir , a woman , tall and large , with thick and dark hair hanging long down her back .
i know not what dress she had on : it was white and straight ; but whether gown , sheet , or shroud , i cannot tell . "
" did you see her face ? "
" not at first . but presently she took my veil from its place ; she held it up , gazed at it long , and then she threw it over her own head , and turned to the mirror . at that moment i saw the reflection of the visage and features quite distinctly in the dark oblong glass . "
" and how were they ? "
" fearful and ghastly to me--oh , sir , i never saw a face like it !
it was a discoloured face--it was a savage face . i wish i could forget the roll of the red eyes and the fearful blackened inflation of the lineaments ! "
" ghosts are usually pale , jane . "
" this , sir , was purple : the lips were swelled and dark ; the brow furrowed : the black eyebrows widely raised over the bloodshot eyes .
shall i tell you of what it reminded me ? "
" you may . "
" of the foul german spectre--the vampyre . "
" ah ! --what did it do ? "
" sir , it removed my veil from its gaunt head , rent it in two parts , and flinging both on the floor , trampled on them . "
" afterwards ? "
" it drew aside the window-curtain and looked out ; perhaps it saw dawn approaching , for , taking the candle , it retreated to the door . just at my bedside , the figure stopped : the fiery eyes glared upon me--she thrust up her candle close to my face , and extinguished it under my eyes .
i was aware her lurid visage flamed over mine , and i lost consciousness : for the second time in my life--only the second time--i became insensible from terror . "
" who was with you when you revived ? "
" no one , sir , but the broad day .
i rose , bathed my head and face in water , drank a long draught ; felt that though enfeebled i was not ill , and determined that to none but you would i impart this vision .
now , sir , tell me who and what that woman was ? "
" the creature of an over-stimulated brain ; that is certain . i must be careful of you , my treasure : nerves like yours were not made for rough handling . "
" sir , depend on it , my nerves were not in fault ; the thing was real : the transaction actually took place . "
" and your previous dreams , were they real too ?
is thornfield hall a ruin ?
am i severed from you by insuperable obstacles ?
am i leaving you without a tear--without a kiss--without a word ? "
" not yet . "
" am i about to do it ?
why , the day is already commenced which is to bind us indissolubly ; and when we are once united , there shall be no recurrence of these mental terrors : i guarantee that . "
" mental terrors , sir !
i wish i could believe them to be only such : i wish it more now than ever ; since even you cannot explain to me the mystery of that awful visitant . "
" and since i cannot do it , jane , it must have been unreal . "
" but , sir , when i said so to myself on rising this morning , and when i looked round the room to gather courage and comfort from the cheerful aspect of each familiar object in full daylight , there--on the carpet--i saw what gave the distinct lie to my hypothesis , --the veil , torn from top to bottom in two halves ! "
i felt mr. rochester start and shudder ; he hastily flung his arms round me .
" thank god ! " he exclaimed , " that if anything malignant did come near you last night , it was only the veil that was harmed .
oh , to think what might have happened ! "
he drew his breath short , and strained me so close to him , i could scarcely pant .
after some minutes ' silence , he continued , cheerily--
" now , janet , i 'll explain to you all about it . it was half dream , half reality . a woman did , i doubt not , enter your room : and that woman was--must have been--grace poole .
you call her a strange being yourself : from all you know , you have reason so to call her--what did she do to me ? what to mason ?
in a state between sleeping and waking , you noticed her entrance and her actions ; but feverish , almost delirious as you were , you ascribed to her a goblin appearance different from her own : the long dishevelled hair , the swelled black face , the exaggerated stature , were figments of imagination ; results of nightmare : the spiteful tearing of the veil was real : and it is like her .
i see you would ask why i keep such a woman in my house : when we have been married a year and a day , i will tell you ; but not now .
are you satisfied , jane ?
do you accept my solution of the mystery ? "
i reflected , and in truth it appeared to me the only possible one : satisfied i was not , but to please him i endeavoured to appear so--relieved , i certainly did feel ; so i answered him with a contented smile .
and now , as it was long past one , i prepared to leave him .
" does not sophie sleep with adele in the nursery ? " he asked , as i lit my candle .
" yes , sir . "
" and there is room enough in adele 's little bed for you .
you must share it with her to-night , jane : it is no wonder that the incident you have related should make you nervous , and i would rather you did not sleep alone : promise me to go to the nursery . "
" i shall be very glad to do so , sir . "
" and fasten the door securely on the inside .
wake sophie when you go upstairs , under pretence of requesting her to rouse you in good time to- morrow ; for you must be dressed and have finished breakfast before eight .
and now , no more sombre thoughts : chase dull care away , janet .
don 't you hear to what soft whispers the wind has fallen ? and there is no more beating of rain against the window-panes : look here " ( he lifted up the curtain ) -- " it is a lovely night ! "
it was . half heaven was pure and stainless : the clouds , now trooping before the wind , which had shifted to the west , were filing off eastward in long , silvered columns . the moon shone peacefully .
" well , " said mr. rochester , gazing inquiringly into my eyes , " how is my janet now ? "
" the night is serene , sir ; and so am i. "
" and you will not dream of separation and sorrow to-night ; but of happy love and blissful union . "
this prediction was but half fulfilled : i did not indeed dream of sorrow , but as little did i dream of joy ; for i never slept at all .
with little adele in my arms , i watched the slumber of childhood--so tranquil , so passionless , so innocent--and waited for the coming day : all my life was awake and astir in my frame : and as soon as the sun rose i rose too .
i remember adele clung to me as i left her : i remember i kissed her as i loosened her little hands from my neck ; and i cried over her with strange emotion , and quitted her because i feared my sobs would break her still sound repose .
she seemed the emblem of my past life ; and here i was now to array myself to meet , the dread , but adored , type of my unknown future day .
chapter xxvi
sophie came at seven to dress me : she was very long indeed in accomplishing her task ; so long that mr. rochester , grown , i suppose , impatient of my delay , sent up to ask why i did not come .
she was just fastening my veil ( the plain square of blond after all ) to my hair with a brooch ; i hurried from under her hands as soon as i could .
" stop ! " she cried in french . " look at yourself in the mirror : you have not taken one peep . "
so i turned at the door : i saw a robed and veiled figure , so unlike my usual self that it seemed almost the image of a stranger .
" jane ! " called a voice , and i hastened down .
i was received at the foot of the stairs by mr. rochester .
" lingerer ! " he said , " my brain is on fire with impatience , and you tarry so long ! "
he took me into the dining-room , surveyed me keenly all over , pronounced me " fair as a lily , and not only the pride of his life , but the desire of his eyes , " and then telling me he would give me but ten minutes to eat some breakfast , he rang the bell .
one of his lately hired servants , a footman , answered it .
" is john getting the carriage ready ? "
" yes , sir . "
" is the luggage brought down ? "
" they are bringing it down , sir . "
" go you to the church : see if mr. wood ( the clergyman ) and the clerk are there : return and tell me . "
the church , as the reader knows , was but just beyond the gates ; the footman soon returned .
" mr. wood is in the vestry , sir , putting on his surplice . "
" and the carriage ? "
" the horses are harnessing . "
" we shall not want it to go to church ; but it must be ready the moment we return : all the boxes and luggage arranged and strapped on , and the coachman in his seat . "
" yes , sir . "
" jane , are you ready ? "
i rose .
there were no groomsmen , no bridesmaids , no relatives to wait for or marshal : none but mr. rochester and i. mrs. fairfax stood in the hall as we passed .
i would fain have spoken to her , but my hand was held by a grasp of iron : i was hurried along by a stride i could hardly follow ; and to look at mr. rochester 's face was to feel that not a second of delay would be tolerated for any purpose .
i wonder what other bridegroom ever looked as he did--so bent up to a purpose , so grimly resolute : or who , under such steadfast brows , ever revealed such flaming and flashing eyes .
i know not whether the day was fair or foul ; in descending the drive , i gazed neither on sky nor earth : my heart was with my eyes ; and both seemed migrated into mr. rochester 's frame .
i wanted to see the invisible thing on which , as we went along , he appeared to fasten a glance fierce and fell . i wanted to feel the thoughts whose force he seemed breasting and resisting .
at the churchyard wicket he stopped : he discovered i was quite out of breath .
" am i cruel in my love ? " he said . " delay an instant : lean on me , jane . "
and now i can recall the picture of the grey old house of god rising calm before me , of a rook wheeling round the steeple , of a ruddy morning sky beyond .
i remember something , too , of the green grave-mounds ; and i have not forgotten , either , two figures of strangers straying amongst the low hillocks and reading the mementoes graven on the few mossy head-stones .
i noticed them , because , as they saw us , they passed round to the back of the church ; and i doubted not they were going to enter by the side-aisle door and witness the ceremony .
by mr. rochester they were not observed ; he was earnestly looking at my face from which the blood had , i daresay , momentarily fled : for i felt my forehead dewy , and my cheeks and lips cold .
when i rallied , which i soon did , he walked gently with me up the path to the porch .
we entered the quiet and humble temple ; the priest waited in his white surplice at the lowly altar , the clerk beside him .
all was still : two shadows only moved in a remote corner .
my conjecture had been correct : the strangers had slipped in before us , and they now stood by the vault of the rochesters , their backs towards us , viewing through the rails the old time-stained marble tomb , where a kneeling angel guarded the remains of damer de rochester , slain at marston moor in the time of the civil wars , and of elizabeth , his wife .
our place was taken at the communion rails .
hearing a cautious step behind me , i glanced over my shoulder : one of the strangers--a gentleman , evidently--was advancing up the chancel .
the service began . the explanation of the intent of matrimony was gone through ; and then the clergyman came a step further forward , and , bending slightly towards mr. rochester , went on .
" i require and charge you both ( as ye will answer at the dreadful day of judgment , when the secrets of all hearts shall be disclosed ) , that if either of you know any impediment why ye may not lawfully be joined together in matrimony , ye do now confess it ; for be ye well assured that so many as are coupled together otherwise than god 's word doth allow , are not joined together by god , neither is their matrimony lawful . "
he paused , as the custom is . when is the pause after that sentence ever broken by reply ? not , perhaps , once in a hundred years .
and the clergyman , who had not lifted his eyes from his book , and had held his breath but for a moment , was proceeding : his hand was already stretched towards mr. rochester , as his lips unclosed to ask , " wilt thou have this woman for thy wedded wife ? " --when a distinct and near voice said--
" the marriage cannot go on : i declare the existence of an impediment . "
the clergyman looked up at the speaker and stood mute ; the clerk did the same ; mr. rochester moved slightly , as if an earthquake had rolled under his feet : taking a firmer footing , and not turning his head or eyes , he said , " proceed . "
profound silence fell when he had uttered that word , with deep but low intonation .
presently mr. wood said--
" i cannot proceed without some investigation into what has been asserted , and evidence of its truth or falsehood . "
" the ceremony is quite broken off , " subjoined the voice behind us . " i am in a condition to prove my allegation : an insuperable impediment to this marriage exists . "
mr. rochester heard , but heeded not : he stood stubborn and rigid , making no movement but to possess himself of my hand .
what a hot and strong grasp he had ! and how like quarried marble was his pale , firm , massive front at this moment ! how his eye shone , still watchful , and yet wild beneath !
mr. wood seemed at a loss .
" what is the nature of the impediment ? " he asked . " perhaps it may be got over--explained away ? "
" hardly , " was the answer . " i have called it insuperable , and i speak advisedly . "
the speaker came forward and leaned on the rails . he continued , uttering each word distinctly , calmly , steadily , but not loudly--
" it simply consists in the existence of a previous marriage . mr. rochester has a wife now living . "
my nerves vibrated to those low-spoken words as they had never vibrated to thunder--my blood felt their subtle violence as it had never felt frost or fire ; but i was collected , and in no danger of swooning .
i looked at mr. rochester : i made him look at me . his whole face was colourless rock : his eye was both spark and flint . he disavowed nothing : he seemed as if he would defy all things .
without speaking , without smiling , without seeming to recognise in me a human being , he only twined my waist with his arm and riveted me to his side .
" who are you ? " he asked of the intruder .
" my name is briggs , a solicitor of --- street , london . "
" and you would thrust on me a wife ? "
" i would remind you of your lady 's existence , sir , which the law recognises , if you do not . "
" favour me with an account of her--with her name , her parentage , her place of abode . "
" certainly . "
mr. briggs calmly took a paper from his pocket , and read out in a sort of official , nasal voice : --
" ' i affirm and can prove that on the 20th of october a.d. --- ( a date of fifteen years back ) , edward fairfax rochester , of thornfield hall , in the county of --- , and of ferndean manor , in ---shire , england , was married to my sister , bertha antoinetta mason , daughter of jonas mason , merchant , and of antoinetta his wife , a creole , at --- church , spanish town , jamaica . the record of the marriage will be found in the register of that church--a copy of it is now in my possession .
signed , richard mason . ' "
" that--if a genuine document--may prove i have been married , but it does not prove that the woman mentioned therein as my wife is still living . "
" she was living three months ago , " returned the lawyer .
" how do you know ? "
" i have a witness to the fact , whose testimony even you , sir , will scarcely controvert . "
" produce him--or go to hell . "
" i will produce him first--he is on the spot .
mr. mason , have the goodness to step forward . "
mr. rochester , on hearing the name , set his teeth ; he experienced , too , a sort of strong convulsive quiver ; near to him as i was , i felt the spasmodic movement of fury or despair run through his frame .
the second stranger , who had hitherto lingered in the background , now drew near ; a pale face looked over the solicitor 's shoulder--yes , it was mason himself .
mr. rochester turned and glared at him .
his eye , as i have often said , was a black eye : it had now a tawny , nay , a bloody light in its gloom ; and his face flushed--olive cheek and hueless forehead received a glow as from spreading , ascending heart-fire : and he stirred , lifted his strong arm--he could have struck mason , dashed him on the church-floor , shocked by ruthless blow the breath from his body--but mason shrank away , and cried faintly , " good god ! "
contempt fell cool on mr. rochester--his passion died as if a blight had shrivelled it up : he only asked-- " what have _ you _ to say ? "
an inaudible reply escaped mason 's white lips .
" the devil is in it if you cannot answer distinctly .
i again demand , what have you to say ? "
" sir--sir , " interrupted the clergyman , " do not forget you are in a sacred place . "
then addressing mason , he inquired gently , " are you aware , sir , whether or not this gentleman 's wife is still living ? "
" courage , " urged the lawyer , -- " speak out . "
" she is now living at thornfield hall , " said mason , in more articulate tones : " i saw her there last april . i am her brother . "
" at thornfield hall ! " ejaculated the clergyman . " impossible ! i am an old resident in this neighbourhood , sir , and i never heard of a mrs. rochester at thornfield hall . "
i saw a grim smile contort mr. rochester 's lips , and he muttered--
" no , by god ! i took care that none should hear of it--or of her under that name . "
he mused--for ten minutes he held counsel with himself : he formed his resolve , and announced it-- " enough ! all shall bolt out at once , like the bullet from the barrel .
wood , close your book and take off your surplice ; john green ( to the clerk ) , leave the church : there will be no wedding to-day . "
the man obeyed .
mr. rochester continued , hardily and recklessly : " bigamy is an ugly word ! --i meant , however , to be a bigamist ; but fate has out-manoeuvred me , or providence has checked me , --perhaps the last .
i am little better than a devil at this moment ; and , as my pastor there would tell me , deserve no doubt the sternest judgments of god , even to the quenchless fire and deathless worm .
gentlemen , my plan is broken up : --what this lawyer and his client say is true : i have been married , and the woman to whom i was married lives !
you say you never heard of a mrs. rochester at the house up yonder , wood ; but i daresay you have many a time inclined your ear to gossip about the mysterious lunatic kept there under watch and ward . some have whispered to you that she is my bastard half-sister : some , my cast-off mistress .
i now inform you that she is my wife , whom i married fifteen years ago , --bertha mason by name ; sister of this resolute personage , who is now , with his quivering limbs and white cheeks , showing you what a stout heart men may bear .
cheer up , dick ! --never fear me ! --i 'd almost as soon strike a woman as you .
bertha mason is mad ; and she came of a mad family ; idiots and maniacs through three generations ! her mother , the creole , was both a madwoman and a drunkard ! --as i found out after i had wed the daughter : for they were silent on family secrets before .
bertha , like a dutiful child , copied her parent in both points .
i had a charming partner--pure , wise , modest : you can fancy i was a happy man . i went through rich scenes !
oh ! my experience has been heavenly , if you only knew it !
but i owe you no further explanation .
briggs , wood , mason , i invite you all to come up to the house and visit mrs. poole 's patient , and _ my wife _ ! you shall see what sort of a being i was cheated into espousing , and judge whether or not i had a right to break the compact , and seek sympathy with something at least human .
this girl , " he continued , looking at me , " knew no more than you , wood , of the disgusting secret : she thought all was fair and legal and never dreamt she was going to be entrapped into a feigned union with a defrauded wretch , already bound to a bad , mad , and embruted partner !
come all of you--follow ! "
still holding me fast , he left the church : the three gentlemen came after . at the front door of the hall we found the carriage .
" take it back to the coach-house , john , " said mr. rochester coolly ; " it will not be wanted to-day . "
at our entrance , mrs. fairfax , adele , sophie , leah , advanced to meet and greet us .
" to the right-about--every soul ! " cried the master ; " away with your congratulations ! who wants them ? not i ! --they are fifteen years too late ! "
he passed on and ascended the stairs , still holding my hand , and still beckoning the gentlemen to follow him , which they did .
we mounted the first staircase , passed up the gallery , proceeded to the third storey : the low , black door , opened by mr. rochester 's master-key , admitted us to the tapestried room , with its great bed and its pictorial cabinet .
" you know this place , mason , " said our guide ; " she bit and stabbed you here . "
he lifted the hangings from the wall , uncovering the second door : this , too , he opened .
in a room without a window , there burnt a fire guarded by a high and strong fender , and a lamp suspended from the ceiling by a chain . grace poole bent over the fire , apparently cooking something in a saucepan .
in the deep shade , at the farther end of the room , a figure ran backwards and forwards . what it was , whether beast or human being , one could not , at first sight , tell : it grovelled , seemingly , on all fours ; it snatched and growled like some strange wild animal : but it was covered with clothing , and a quantity of dark , grizzled hair , wild as a mane , hid its head and face .
" good-morrow , mrs. poole ! " said mr. rochester . " how are you ? and how is your charge to-day ? "
" we 're tolerable , sir , i thank you , " replied grace , lifting the boiling mess carefully on to the hob : " rather snappish , but not ' rageous . "
a fierce cry seemed to give the lie to her favourable report : the clothed hyena rose up , and stood tall on its hind-feet .
" ah ! sir , she sees you ! " exclaimed grace : " you 'd better not stay . "
" only a few moments , grace : you must allow me a few moments . "
" take care then , sir ! --for god 's sake , take care ! "
the maniac bellowed : she parted her shaggy locks from her visage , and gazed wildly at her visitors .
i recognised well that purple face , --those bloated features .
mrs. poole advanced . " keep out of the way , " said mr. rochester , thrusting her aside : " she has no knife now , i suppose , and i 'm on my guard . "
" one never knows what she has , sir : she is so cunning : it is not in mortal discretion to fathom her craft . "
" we had better leave her , " whispered mason .
" go to the devil ! " was his brother-in-law 's recommendation .
" ' ware ! " cried grace .
the three gentlemen retreated simultaneously . mr. rochester flung me behind him : the lunatic sprang and grappled his throat viciously , and laid her teeth to his cheek : they struggled .
she was a big woman , in stature almost equalling her husband , and corpulent besides : she showed virile force in the contest--more than once she almost throttled him , athletic as he was .
he could have settled her with a well-planted blow ; but he would not strike : he would only wrestle .
at last he mastered her arms ; grace poole gave him a cord , and he pinioned them behind her : with more rope , which was at hand , he bound her to a chair .
the operation was performed amidst the fiercest yells and the most convulsive plunges . mr. rochester then turned to the spectators : he looked at them with a smile both acrid and desolate . " that is _ my wife _ , " said he .
" such is the sole conjugal embrace i am ever to know--such are the endearments which are to solace my leisure hours ! and _ this _ is what i wished to have " ( laying his hand on my shoulder ) : " this young girl , who stands so grave and quiet at the mouth of hell , looking collectedly at the gambols of a demon , i wanted her just as a change after that fierce ragout .
wood and briggs , look at the difference ! compare these clear eyes with the red balls yonder--this face with that mask--this form with that bulk ; then judge me , priest of the gospel and man of the law , and remember with what judgment ye judge ye shall be judged !
off with you now . i must shut up my prize . "
we all withdrew . mr. rochester stayed a moment behind us , to give some further order to grace poole . the solicitor addressed me as he descended the stair .
" you , madam , " said he , " are cleared from all blame : your uncle will be glad to hear it--if , indeed , he should be still living--when mr. mason returns to madeira . "
" my uncle !
what of him ? do you know him ? "
" mr. mason does . mr. eyre has been the funchal correspondent of his house for some years .
when your uncle received your letter intimating the contemplated union between yourself and mr. rochester , mr. mason , who was staying at madeira to recruit his health , on his way back to jamaica , happened to be with him .
mr. eyre mentioned the intelligence ; for he knew that my client here was acquainted with a gentleman of the name of rochester . mr. mason , astonished and distressed as you may suppose , revealed the real state of matters .
your uncle , i am sorry to say , is now on a sick bed ; from which , considering the nature of his disease--decline--and the stage it has reached , it is unlikely he will ever rise .
he could not then hasten to england himself , to extricate you from the snare into which you had fallen , but he implored mr. mason to lose no time in taking steps to prevent the false marriage .
he referred him to me for assistance . i used all despatch , and am thankful i was not too late : as you , doubtless , must be also .
were i not morally certain that your uncle will be dead ere you reach madeira , i would advise you to accompany mr. mason back ; but as it is , i think you had better remain in england till you can hear further , either from or of mr. eyre .
have we anything else to stay for ? " he inquired of mr. mason .
" no , no--let us be gone , " was the anxious reply ; and without waiting to take leave of mr. rochester , they made their exit at the hall door .
the clergyman stayed to exchange a few sentences , either of admonition or reproof , with his haughty parishioner ; this duty done , he too departed .
i heard him go as i stood at the half-open door of my own room , to which i had now withdrawn .
the house cleared , i shut myself in , fastened the bolt that none might intrude , and proceeded--not to weep , not to mourn , i was yet too calm for that , but--mechanically to take off the wedding dress , and replace it by the stuff gown i had worn yesterday , as i thought , for the last time .
i then sat down : i felt weak and tired . i leaned my arms on a table , and my head dropped on them . and now i thought : till now i had only heard , seen , moved--followed up and down where i was led or dragged--watched event rush on event , disclosure open beyond disclosure : but _ now _ , _ i thought _ .
the morning had been a quiet morning enough--all except the brief scene with the lunatic : the transaction in the church had not been noisy ; there was no explosion of passion , no loud altercation , no dispute , no defiance or challenge , no tears , no sobs : a few words had been spoken , a calmly pronounced objection to the marriage made ; some stern , short questions put by mr. rochester ; answers , explanations given , evidence adduced ; an open admission of the truth had been uttered by my master ; then the living proof had been seen ; the intruders were gone , and all was over .
i was in my own room as usual--just myself , without obvious change : nothing had smitten me , or scathed me , or maimed me . and yet where was the jane eyre of yesterday ? --where was her life ? --where were her prospects ?
jane eyre , who had been an ardent , expectant woman--almost a bride , was a cold , solitary girl again : her life was pale ; her prospects were desolate .
a christmas frost had come at midsummer ; a white december storm had whirled over june ; ice glazed the ripe apples , drifts crushed the blowing roses ; on hayfield and cornfield lay a frozen shroud : lanes which last night blushed full of flowers , to-day were pathless with untrodden snow ; and the woods , which twelve hours since waved leafy and flagrant as groves between the tropics , now spread , waste , wild , and white as pine-forests in wintry norway .
my hopes were all dead--struck with a subtle doom , such as , in one night , fell on all the first-born in the land of egypt .
i looked on my cherished wishes , yesterday so blooming and glowing ; they lay stark , chill , livid corpses that could never revive .
i looked at my love : that feeling which was my master 's--which he had created ; it shivered in my heart , like a suffering child in a cold cradle ; sickness and anguish had seized it ; it could not seek mr. rochester 's arms--it could not derive warmth from his breast .
oh , never more could it turn to him ; for faith was blighted--confidence destroyed !
mr. rochester was not to me what he had been ; for he was not what i had thought him .
i would not ascribe vice to him ; i would not say he had betrayed me ; but the attribute of stainless truth was gone from his idea , and from his presence i must go : _ that _ i perceived well .
when--how--whither , i could not yet discern ; but he himself , i doubted not , would hurry me from thornfield .
real affection , it seemed , he could not have for me ; it had been only fitful passion : that was balked ; he would want me no more . i should fear even to cross his path now : my view must be hateful to him .
oh , how blind had been my eyes ! how weak my conduct !
my eyes were covered and closed : eddying darkness seemed to swim round me , and reflection came in as black and confused a flow .
self-abandoned , relaxed , and effortless , i seemed to have laid me down in the dried-up bed of a great river ; i heard a flood loosened in remote mountains , and felt the torrent come : to rise i had no will , to flee i had no strength . i lay faint , longing to be dead .
one idea only still throbbed life-like within me--a remembrance of god : it begot an unuttered prayer : these words went wandering up and down in my rayless mind , as something that should be whispered , but no energy was found to express them--
" be not far from me , for trouble is near : there is none to help . "
it was near : and as i had lifted no petition to heaven to avert it--as i had neither joined my hands , nor bent my knees , nor moved my lips--it came : in full heavy swing the torrent poured over me .
the whole consciousness of my life lorn , my love lost , my hope quenched , my faith death-struck , swayed full and mighty above me in one sullen mass .
that bitter hour cannot be described : in truth , " the waters came into my soul ; i sank in deep mire : i felt no standing ; i came into deep waters ; the floods overflowed me . "
chapter xxvii
some time in the afternoon i raised my head , and looking round and seeing the western sun gilding the sign of its decline on the wall , i asked , " what am i to do ? "
but the answer my mind gave-- " leave thornfield at once " --was so prompt , so dread , that i stopped my ears . i said i could not bear such words now .
" that i am not edward rochester 's bride is the least part of my woe , " i alleged : " that i have wakened out of most glorious dreams , and found them all void and vain , is a horror i could bear and master ; but that i must leave him decidedly , instantly , entirely , is intolerable . i cannot do it . "
but , then , a voice within me averred that i could do it and foretold that i should do it .
i wrestled with my own resolution : i wanted to be weak that i might avoid the awful passage of further suffering i saw laid out for me ; and conscience , turned tyrant , held passion by the throat , told her tauntingly , she had yet but dipped her dainty foot in the slough , and swore that with that arm of iron he would thrust her down to unsounded depths of agony .
" let me be torn away , " then i cried . " let another help me ! "
" no ; you shall tear yourself away , none shall help you : you shall yourself pluck out your right eye ; yourself cut off your right hand : your heart shall be the victim , and you the priest to transfix it . "
i rose up suddenly , terror-struck at the solitude which so ruthless a judge haunted , --at the silence which so awful a voice filled . my head swam as i stood erect .
i perceived that i was sickening from excitement and inanition ; neither meat nor drink had passed my lips that day , for i had taken no breakfast .
and , with a strange pang , i now reflected that , long as i had been shut up here , no message had been sent to ask how i was , or to invite me to come down : not even little adele had tapped at the door ; not even mrs. fairfax had sought me .
" friends always forget those whom fortune forsakes , " i murmured , as i undrew the bolt and passed out .
i stumbled over an obstacle : my head was still dizzy , my sight was dim , and my limbs were feeble . i could not soon recover myself . i fell , but not on to the ground : an outstretched arm caught me . i looked up--i was supported by mr. rochester , who sat in a chair across my chamber threshold . " you come out at last , " he said .
" well , i have been waiting for you long , and listening : yet not one movement have i heard , nor one sob : five minutes more of that death-like hush , and i should have forced the lock like a burglar .
so you shun me ? --you shut yourself up and grieve alone ! i would rather you had come and upbraided me with vehemence . you are passionate . i expected a scene of some kind .
i was prepared for the hot rain of tears ; only i wanted them to be shed on my breast : now a senseless floor has received them , or your drenched handkerchief .
but i err : you have not wept at all ! i see a white cheek and a faded eye , but no trace of tears .
i suppose , then , your heart has been weeping blood ? "
" well , jane ! not a word of reproach ?
nothing bitter--nothing poignant ?
nothing to cut a feeling or sting a passion ?
you sit quietly where i have placed you , and regard me with a weary , passive look . "
" jane , i never meant to wound you thus . if the man who had but one little ewe lamb that was dear to him as a daughter , that ate of his bread and drank of his cup , and lay in his bosom , had by some mistake slaughtered it at the shambles , he would not have rued his bloody blunder more than i now rue mine .
will you ever forgive me ? "
reader , i forgave him at the moment and on the spot .
there was such deep remorse in his eye , such true pity in his tone , such manly energy in his manner ; and besides , there was such unchanged love in his whole look and mien--i forgave him all : yet not in words , not outwardly ; only at my heart 's core .
" you know i am a scoundrel , jane ? " ere long he inquired wistfully--wondering , i suppose , at my continued silence and tameness , the result rather of weakness than of will .
" yes , sir . "
" then tell me so roundly and sharply--don 't spare me . "
" i cannot : i am tired and sick . i want some water . "
he heaved a sort of shuddering sigh , and taking me in his arms , carried me downstairs .
at first i did not know to what room he had borne me ; all was cloudy to my glazed sight : presently i felt the reviving warmth of a fire ; for , summer as it was , i had become icy cold in my chamber .
he put wine to my lips ; i tasted it and revived ; then i ate something he offered me , and was soon myself .
i was in the library--sitting in his chair--he was quite near .
" if i could go out of life now , without too sharp a pang , it would be well for me , " i thought ; " then i should not have to make the effort of cracking my heart-strings in rending them from among mr. rochester 's .
i must leave him , it appears . i do not want to leave him--i cannot leave him . " " how are you now , jane ? "
" much better , sir ; i shall be well soon . "
" taste the wine again , jane . "
i obeyed him ; then he put the glass on the table , stood before me , and looked at me attentively .
suddenly he turned away , with an inarticulate exclamation , full of passionate emotion of some kind ; he walked fast through the room and came back ; he stooped towards me as if to kiss me ; but i remembered caresses were now forbidden . i turned my face away and put his aside .
" what ! --how is this ? " he exclaimed hastily . " oh , i know ! you won 't kiss the husband of bertha mason ? you consider my arms filled and my embraces appropriated ? "
" at any rate , there is neither room nor claim for me , sir . "
" why , jane ?
i will spare you the trouble of much talking ; i will answer for you--because i have a wife already , you would reply.--i guess rightly ? "
" yes . "
" if you think so , you must have a strange opinion of me ; you must regard me as a plotting profligate--a base and low rake who has been simulating disinterested love in order to draw you into a snare deliberately laid , and strip you of honour and rob you of self-respect .
what do you say to that ?
i see you can say nothing in the first place , you are faint still , and have enough to do to draw your breath ; in the second place , you cannot yet accustom yourself to accuse and revile me , and besides , the flood-gates of tears are opened , and they would rush out if you spoke much ; and you have no desire to expostulate , to upbraid , to make a scene : you are thinking how _ to act _ -- _ talking _ you consider is of no use . i know you--i am on my guard . "
" sir , i do not wish to act against you , " i said ; and my unsteady voice warned me to curtail my sentence .
" not in your sense of the word , but in mine you are scheming to destroy me .
you have as good as said that i am a married man--as a married man you will shun me , keep out of my way : just now you have refused to kiss me .
you intend to make yourself a complete stranger to me : to live under this roof only as adele 's governess ; if ever i say a friendly word to you , if ever a friendly feeling inclines you again to me , you will say , -- ' that man had nearly made me his mistress : i must be ice and rock to him ; ' and ice and rock you will accordingly become . "
i cleared and steadied my voice to reply : " all is changed about me , sir ; i must change too--there is no doubt of that ; and to avoid fluctuations of feeling , and continual combats with recollections and associations , there is only one way--adele must have a new governess , sir . "
" oh , adele will go to school--i have settled that already ; nor do i mean to torment you with the hideous associations and recollections of thornfield hall--this accursed place--this tent of achan--this insolent vault , offering the ghastliness of living death to the light of the open sky--this narrow stone hell , with its one real fiend , worse than a legion of such as we imagine .
jane , you shall not stay here , nor will i. i was wrong ever to bring you to thornfield hall , knowing as i did how it was haunted .
i charged them to conceal from you , before i ever saw you , all knowledge of the curse of the place ; merely because i feared adele never would have a governess to stay if she knew with what inmate she was housed , and my plans would not permit me to remove the maniac elsewhere--though i possess an old house , ferndean manor , even more retired and hidden than this , where i could have lodged her safely enough , had not a scruple about the unhealthiness of the situation , in the heart of a wood , made my conscience recoil from the arrangement .
probably those damp walls would soon have eased me of her charge : but to each villain his own vice ; and mine is not a tendency to indirect assassination , even of what i most hate .
" concealing the mad-woman 's neighbourhood from you , however , was something like covering a child with a cloak and laying it down near a upas-tree : that demon 's vicinage is poisoned , and always was .
but i 'll shut up thornfield hall : i 'll nail up the front door and board the lower windows : i 'll give mrs. poole two hundred a year to live here with _ my wife _ , as you term that fearful hag : grace will do much for money , and she shall have her son , the keeper at grimsby retreat , to bear her company and be at hand to give her aid in the paroxysms , when _ my wife _ is prompted by her familiar to burn people in their beds at night , to stab them , to bite their flesh from their bones , and so on-- "
" sir , " i interrupted him , " you are inexorable for that unfortunate lady : you speak of her with hate--with vindictive antipathy . it is cruel--she cannot help being mad . "
" jane , my little darling ( so i will call you , for so you are ) , you don 't know what you are talking about ; you misjudge me again : it is not because she is mad i hate her .
if you were mad , do you think i should hate you ? "
" i do indeed , sir . "
" then you are mistaken , and you know nothing about me , and nothing about the sort of love of which i am capable . every atom of your flesh is as dear to me as my own : in pain and sickness it would still be dear .
your mind is my treasure , and if it were broken , it would be my treasure still : if you raved , my arms should confine you , and not a strait waistcoat--your grasp , even in fury , would have a charm for me : if you flew at me as wildly as that woman did this morning , i should receive you in an embrace , at least as fond as it would be restrictive .
i should not shrink from you with disgust as i did from her : in your quiet moments you should have no watcher and no nurse but me ; and i could hang over you with untiring tenderness , though you gave me no smile in return ; and never weary of gazing into your eyes , though they had no longer a ray of recognition for me .
--but why do i follow that train of ideas ?
i was talking of removing you from thornfield . all , you know , is prepared for prompt departure : to-morrow you shall go .
i only ask you to endure one more night under this roof , jane ; and then , farewell to its miseries and terrors for ever ! i have a place to repair to , which will be a secure sanctuary from hateful reminiscences , from unwelcome intrusion--even from falsehood and slander . "
" and take adele with you , sir , " i interrupted ; " she will be a companion for you . "
" what do you mean , jane ?
i told you i would send adele to school ; and what do i want with a child for a companion , and not my own child , --a french dancer 's bastard ? why do you importune me about her !
i say , why do you assign adele to me for a companion ? "
" you spoke of a retirement , sir ; and retirement and solitude are dull : too dull for you . "
" solitude ! solitude ! " he reiterated with irritation .
" i see i must come to an explanation . i don 't know what sphynx-like expression is forming in your countenance .
you are to share my solitude . do you understand ? "
i shook my head : it required a degree of courage , excited as he was becoming , even to risk that mute sign of dissent .
he had been walking fast about the room , and he stopped , as if suddenly rooted to one spot . he looked at me long and hard : i turned my eyes from him , fixed them on the fire , and tried to assume and maintain a quiet , collected aspect .
" now for the hitch in jane 's character , " he said at last , speaking more calmly than from his look i had expected him to speak . " the reel of silk has run smoothly enough so far ; but i always knew there would come a knot and a puzzle : here it is . now for vexation , and exasperation , and endless trouble !
by god ! i long to exert a fraction of samson 's strength , and break the entanglement like tow ! "
he recommenced his walk , but soon again stopped , and this time just before me .
" jane ! will you hear reason ? " ( he stooped and approached his lips to my ear ) ; " because , if you won 't , i 'll try violence . "
his voice was hoarse ; his look that of a man who is just about to burst an insufferable bond and plunge headlong into wild license .
i saw that in another moment , and with one impetus of frenzy more , i should be able to do nothing with him . the present--the passing second of time--was all i had in which to control and restrain him--a movement of repulsion , flight , fear would have sealed my doom , --and his . but i was not afraid : not in the least .
i felt an inward power ; a sense of influence , which supported me . the crisis was perilous ; but not without its charm : such as the indian , perhaps , feels when he slips over the rapid in his canoe .
i took hold of his clenched hand , loosened the contorted fingers , and said to him , soothingly--
" sit down ; i 'll talk to you as long as you like , and hear all you have to say , whether reasonable or unreasonable . "
he sat down : but he did not get leave to speak directly .
i had been struggling with tears for some time : i had taken great pains to repress them , because i knew he would not like to see me weep . now , however , i considered it well to let them flow as freely and as long as they liked . if the flood annoyed him , so much the better .
so i gave way and cried heartily .
soon i heard him earnestly entreating me to be composed . i said i could not while he was in such a passion .
" but i am not angry , jane : i only love you too well ; and you had steeled your little pale face with such a resolute , frozen look , i could not endure it .
hush , now , and wipe your eyes . "
his softened voice announced that he was subdued ; so i , in my turn , became calm .
now he made an effort to rest his head on my shoulder , but i would not permit it .
then he would draw me to him : no .
" jane ! jane ! " he said , in such an accent of bitter sadness it thrilled along every nerve i had ; " you don 't love me , then ?
it was only my station , and the rank of my wife , that you valued ? now that you think me disqualified to become your husband , you recoil from my touch as if i were some toad or ape . "
these words cut me : yet what could i do or i say ?
i ought probably to have done or said nothing ; but i was so tortured by a sense of remorse at thus hurting his feelings , i could not control the wish to drop balm where i had wounded .
" i _ do _ love you , " i said , " more than ever : but i must not show or indulge the feeling : and this is the last time i must express it . "
" the last time , jane !
what ! do you think you can live with me , and see me daily , and yet , if you still love me , be always cold and distant ? "
" no , sir ; that i am certain i could not ; and therefore i see there is but one way : but you will be furious if i mention it . "
" oh , mention it ! if i storm , you have the art of weeping . "
" mr. rochester , i must leave you . "
" for how long , jane ?
for a few minutes , while you smooth your hair--which is somewhat dishevelled ; and bathe your face--which looks feverish ? "
" i must leave adele and thornfield . i must part with you for my whole life : i must begin a new existence among strange faces and strange scenes . "
" of course : i told you you should .
i pass over the madness about parting from me . you mean you must become a part of me .
as to the new existence , it is all right : you shall yet be my wife : i am not married . you shall be mrs. rochester--both virtually and nominally .
i shall keep only to you so long as you and i live . you shall go to a place i have in the south of france : a whitewashed villa on the shores of the mediterranean . there you shall live a happy , and guarded , and most innocent life .
never fear that i wish to lure you into error--to make you my mistress .
why did you shake your head ?
jane , you must be reasonable , or in truth i shall again become frantic . "
his voice and hand quivered : his large nostrils dilated ; his eye blazed : still i dared to speak .
" sir , your wife is living : that is a fact acknowledged this morning by yourself . if i lived with you as you desire , i should then be your mistress : to say otherwise is sophistical--is false . "
" jane , i am not a gentle-tempered man--you forget that : i am not long- enduring ; i am not cool and dispassionate . out of pity to me and yourself , put your finger on my pulse , feel how it throbs , and--beware ! "
he bared his wrist , and offered it to me : the blood was forsaking his cheek and lips , they were growing livid ; i was distressed on all hands .
to agitate him thus deeply , by a resistance he so abhorred , was cruel : to yield was out of the question .
i did what human beings do instinctively when they are driven to utter extremity--looked for aid to one higher than man : the words " god help me ! " burst involuntarily from my lips .
" i am a fool ! " cried mr. rochester suddenly . " i keep telling her i am not married , and do not explain to her why . i forget she knows nothing of the character of that woman , or of the circumstances attending my infernal union with her . oh , i am certain jane will agree with me in opinion , when she knows all that i know !
just put your hand in mine , janet--that i may have the evidence of touch as well as sight , to prove you are near me--and i will in a few words show you the real state of the case . can you listen to me ? "
" yes , sir ; for hours if you will . "
" i ask only minutes . jane , did you ever hear or know that i was not the eldest son of my house : that i had once a brother older than i ? "
" i remember mrs. fairfax told me so once . "
" and did you ever hear that my father was an avaricious , grasping man ? "
" i have understood something to that effect . "
" well , jane , being so , it was his resolution to keep the property together ; he could not bear the idea of dividing his estate and leaving me a fair portion : all , he resolved , should go to my brother , rowland .
yet as little could he endure that a son of his should be a poor man . i must be provided for by a wealthy marriage .
mr. mason , a west india planter and merchant , was his old acquaintance .
he was certain his possessions were real and vast : he made inquiries . mr. mason , he found , had a son and daughter ; and he learned from him that he could and would give the latter a fortune of thirty thousand pounds : that sufficed .
when i left college , i was sent out to jamaica , to espouse a bride already courted for me .
my father said nothing about her money ; but he told me miss mason was the boast of spanish town for her beauty : and this was no lie .
i found her a fine woman , in the style of blanche ingram : tall , dark , and majestic .
her family wished to secure me because i was of a good race ; and so did she . they showed her to me in parties , splendidly dressed . i seldom saw her alone , and had very little private conversation with her .
she flattered me , and lavishly displayed for my pleasure her charms and accomplishments .
all the men in her circle seemed to admire her and envy me . i was dazzled , stimulated : my senses were excited ; and being ignorant , raw , and inexperienced , i thought i loved her .
there is no folly so besotted that the idiotic rivalries of society , the prurience , the rashness , the blindness of youth , will not hurry a man to its commission . her relatives encouraged me ; competitors piqued me ; she allured me : a marriage was achieved almost before i knew where i was .
oh , i have no respect for myself when i think of that act ! --an agony of inward contempt masters me .
i never loved , i never esteemed , i did not even know her . i was not sure of the existence of one virtue in her nature : i had marked neither modesty , nor benevolence , nor candour , nor refinement in her mind or manners--and , i married her : --gross , grovelling , mole-eyed blockhead that i was ! with less sin i might have--but let me remember to whom i am speaking . "
" my bride 's mother i had never seen : i understood she was dead .
the honeymoon over , i learned my mistake ; she was only mad , and shut up in a lunatic asylum .
there was a younger brother , too--a complete dumb idiot .
the elder one , whom you have seen ( and whom i cannot hate , whilst i abhor all his kindred , because he has some grains of affection in his feeble mind , shown in the continued interest he takes in his wretched sister , and also in a dog-like attachment he once bore me ) , will probably be in the same state one day .
my father and my brother rowland knew all this ; but they thought only of the thirty thousand pounds , and joined in the plot against me . "
" these were vile discoveries ; but except for the treachery of concealment , i should have made them no subject of reproach to my wife , even when i found her nature wholly alien to mine , her tastes obnoxious to me , her cast of mind common , low , narrow , and singularly incapable of being led to anything higher , expanded to anything larger--
when i found that i could not pass a single evening , nor even a single hour of the day with her in comfort ; that kindly conversation could not be sustained between us , because whatever topic i started , immediately received from her a turn at once coarse and trite , perverse and imbecile--when i perceived that i should never have a quiet or settled household , because no servant would bear the continued outbreaks of her violent and unreasonable temper , or the vexations of her absurd , contradictory , exacting orders--even then i restrained myself : i eschewed upbraiding , i curtailed remonstrance ; i tried to devour my repentance and disgust in secret ; i repressed the deep antipathy i felt .
" jane , i will not trouble you with abominable details : some strong words shall express what i have to say .
i lived with that woman upstairs four years , and before that time she had tried me indeed : her character ripened and developed with frightful rapidity ; her vices sprang up fast and rank : they were so strong , only cruelty could check them , and i would not use cruelty .
what a pigmy intellect she had , and what giant propensities ! how fearful were the curses those propensities entailed on me !
bertha mason , the true daughter of an infamous mother , dragged me through all the hideous and degrading agonies which must attend a man bound to a wife at once intemperate and unchaste .
" my brother in the interval was dead , and at the end of the four years my father died too .
i was rich enough now--yet poor to hideous indigence : a nature the most gross , impure , depraved i ever saw , was associated with mine , and called by the law and by society a part of me .
and i could not rid myself of it by any legal proceedings : for the doctors now discovered that _ my wife _ was mad--her excesses had prematurely developed the germs of insanity .
jane , you don 't like my narrative ; you look almost sick--shall i defer the rest to another day ? "
" no , sir , finish it now ; i pity you--i do earnestly pity you . "
" pity , jane , from some people is a noxious and insulting sort of tribute , which one is justified in hurling back in the teeth of those who offer it ; but that is the sort of pity native to callous , selfish hearts ; it is a hybrid , egotistical pain at hearing of woes , crossed with ignorant contempt for those who have endured them .
but that is not your pity , jane ; it is not the feeling of which your whole face is full at this moment--with which your eyes are now almost overflowing--with which your heart is heaving--with which your hand is trembling in mine .
your pity , my darling , is the suffering mother of love : its anguish is the very natal pang of the divine passion .
i accept it , jane ; let the daughter have free advent--my arms wait to receive her . "
" now , sir , proceed ; what did you do when you found she was mad ? "
" jane , i approached the verge of despair ; a remnant of self-respect was all that intervened between me and the gulf .
in the eyes of the world , i was doubtless covered with grimy dishonour ; but i resolved to be clean in my own sight--and to the last i repudiated the contamination of her crimes , and wrenched myself from connection with her mental defects .
still , society associated my name and person with hers ; i yet saw her and heard her daily : something of her breath ( faugh ! ) mixed with the air i breathed ; and besides , i remembered i had once been her husband--that recollection was then , and is now , inexpressibly odious to me ; moreover , i knew that while she lived i could never be the husband of another and better wife ; and , though five years my senior ( her family and her father had lied to me even in the particular of her age ) , she was likely to live as long as i , being as robust in frame as she was infirm in mind .
thus , at the age of twenty-six , i was hopeless .
" one night i had been awakened by her yells-- ( since the medical men had pronounced her mad , she had , of course , been shut up ) --it was a fiery west indian night ; one of the description that frequently precede the hurricanes of those climates .
being unable to sleep in bed , i got up and opened the window . the air was like sulphur-steams--i could find no refreshment anywhere .
mosquitoes came buzzing in and hummed sullenly round the room ; the sea , which i could hear from thence , rumbled dull like an earthquake--black clouds were casting up over it ; the moon was setting in the waves , broad and red , like a hot cannon-ball--she threw her last bloody glance over a world quivering with the ferment of tempest .
i was physically influenced by the atmosphere and scene , and my ears were filled with the curses the maniac still shrieked out ; wherein she momentarily mingled my name with such a tone of demon-hate , with such language ! --no professed harlot ever had a fouler vocabulary than she : though two rooms off , i heard every word--the thin partitions of the west india house opposing but slight obstruction to her wolfish cries .
" ' this life , ' said i at last , ' is hell : this is the air--those are the sounds of the bottomless pit !
i have a right to deliver myself from it if i can . the sufferings of this mortal state will leave me with the heavy flesh that now cumbers my soul .
of the fanatic 's burning eternity i have no fear : there is not a future state worse than this present one--let me break away , and go home to god ! '
" i said this whilst i knelt down at , and unlocked a trunk which contained a brace of loaded pistols : i mean to shoot myself .
i only entertained the intention for a moment ; for , not being insane , the crisis of exquisite and unalloyed despair , which had originated the wish and design of self-destruction , was past in a second .
" a wind fresh from europe blew over the ocean and rushed through the open casement : the storm broke , streamed , thundered , blazed , and the air grew pure . i then framed and fixed a resolution .
while i walked under the dripping orange-trees of my wet garden , and amongst its drenched pomegranates and pine-apples , and while the refulgent dawn of the tropics kindled round me--i reasoned thus , jane--and now listen ; for it was true wisdom that consoled me in that hour , and showed me the right path to follow .
" the sweet wind from europe was still whispering in the refreshed leaves , and the atlantic was thundering in glorious liberty ; my heart , dried up and scorched for a long time , swelled to the tone , and filled with living blood--my being longed for renewal--my soul thirsted for a pure draught . i saw hope revive--and felt regeneration possible .
from a flowery arch at the bottom of my garden i gazed over the sea--bluer than the sky : the old world was beyond ; clear prospects opened thus : --
" ' go , ' said hope , ' and live again in europe : there it is not known what a sullied name you bear , nor what a filthy burden is bound to you . you may take the maniac with you to england ; confine her with due attendance and precautions at thornfield : then travel yourself to what clime you will , and form what new tie you like .
that woman , who has so abused your long- suffering , so sullied your name , so outraged your honour , so blighted your youth , is not your wife , nor are you her husband .
see that she is cared for as her condition demands , and you have done all that god and humanity require of you .
let her identity , her connection with yourself , be buried in oblivion : you are bound to impart them to no living being . place her in safety and comfort : shelter her degradation with secrecy , and leave her . '
" i acted precisely on this suggestion . my father and brother had not made my marriage known to their acquaintance ; because , in the very first letter i wrote to apprise them of the union--having already begun to experience extreme disgust of its consequences , and , from the family character and constitution , seeing a hideous future opening to me--i added an urgent charge to keep it secret : and very soon the infamous conduct of the wife my father had selected for me was such as to make him blush to own her as his daughter-in-law .
far from desiring to publish the connection , he became as anxious to conceal it as myself .
" to england , then , i conveyed her ; a fearful voyage i had with such a monster in the vessel .
glad was i when i at last got her to thornfield , and saw her safely lodged in that third-storey room , of whose secret inner cabinet she has now for ten years made a wild beast 's den--a goblin 's cell .
i had some trouble in finding an attendant for her , as it was necessary to select one on whose fidelity dependence could be placed ; for her ravings would inevitably betray my secret : besides , she had lucid intervals of days--sometimes weeks--which she filled up with abuse of me .
at last i hired grace poole from the grimbsy retreat .
she and the surgeon , carter ( who dressed mason 's wounds that night he was stabbed and worried ) , are the only two i have ever admitted to my confidence . mrs. fairfax may indeed have suspected something , but she could have gained no precise knowledge as to facts .
grace has , on the whole , proved a good keeper ; though , owing partly to a fault of her own , of which it appears nothing can cure her , and which is incident to her harassing profession , her vigilance has been more than once lulled and baffled .
the lunatic is both cunning and malignant ; she has never failed to take advantage of her guardian 's temporary lapses ; once to secrete the knife with which she stabbed her brother , and twice to possess herself of the key of her cell , and issue therefrom in the night-time . on the first of these occasions , she perpetrated the attempt to burn me in my bed ; on the second , she paid that ghastly visit to you .
i thank providence , who watched over you , that she then spent her fury on your wedding apparel , which perhaps brought back vague reminiscences of her own bridal days : but on what might have happened , i cannot endure to reflect .
when i think of the thing which flew at my throat this morning , hanging its black and scarlet visage over the nest of my dove , my blood curdles-- "
" and what , sir , " i asked , while he paused , " did you do when you had settled her here ?
where did you go ? "
" what did i do , jane ? i transformed myself into a will-o ' -the-wisp .
where did i go ? i pursued wanderings as wild as those of the march-spirit .
i sought the continent , and went devious through all its lands . my fixed desire was to seek and find a good and intelligent woman , whom i could love : a contrast to the fury i left at thornfield-- "
" but you could not marry , sir . "
" i had determined and was convinced that i could and ought .
it was not my original intention to deceive , as i have deceived you . i meant to tell my tale plainly , and make my proposals openly : and it appeared to me so absolutely rational that i should be considered free to love and be loved , i never doubted some woman might be found willing and able to understand my case and accept me , in spite of the curse with which i was burdened . "
" well , sir ? "
" when you are inquisitive , jane , you always make me smile . you open your eyes like an eager bird , and make every now and then a restless movement , as if answers in speech did not flow fast enough for you , and you wanted to read the tablet of one 's heart .
but before i go on , tell me what you mean by your ' well , sir ? '
it is a small phrase very frequent with you ; and which many a time has drawn me on and on through interminable talk : i don 't very well know why . "
" i mean , --what next ? how did you proceed ?
what came of such an event ? "
" precisely ! and what do you wish to know now ? "
" whether you found any one you liked : whether you asked her to marry you ; and what she said . "
" i can tell you whether i found any one i liked , and whether i asked her to marry me : but what she said is yet to be recorded in the book of fate .
for ten long years i roved about , living first in one capital , then another : sometimes in st. petersburg ; oftener in paris ; occasionally in rome , naples , and florence .
provided with plenty of money and the passport of an old name , i could choose my own society : no circles were closed against me . i sought my ideal of a woman amongst english ladies , french countesses , italian signoras , and german grafinnen . i could not find her .
sometimes , for a fleeting moment , i thought i caught a glance , heard a tone , beheld a form , which announced the realisation of my dream : but i was presently undeserved .
you are not to suppose that i desired perfection , either of mind or person . i longed only for what suited me--for the antipodes of the creole : and i longed vainly .
amongst them all i found not one whom , had i been ever so free , i--warned as i was of the risks , the horrors , the loathings of incongruous unions--would have asked to marry me . disappointment made me reckless .
that was my indian messalina 's attribute : rooted disgust at it and her restrained me much , even in pleasure .
any enjoyment that bordered on riot seemed to approach me to her and her vices , and i eschewed it .
" yet i could not live alone ; so i tried the companionship of mistresses .
the first i chose was celine varens--another of those steps which make a man spurn himself when he recalls them . you already know what she was , and how my liaison with her terminated .
she had two successors : an italian , giacinta , and a german , clara ; both considered singularly handsome .
what was their beauty to me in a few weeks ?
giacinta was unprincipled and violent : i tired of her in three months .
clara was honest and quiet ; but heavy , mindless , and unimpressible : not one whit to my taste . i was glad to give her a sufficient sum to set her up in a good line of business , and so get decently rid of her .
but , jane , i see by your face you are not forming a very favourable opinion of me just now . you think me an unfeeling , loose-principled rake : don 't you ? "
" i don 't like you so well as i have done sometimes , indeed , sir . did it not seem to you in the least wrong to live in that way , first with one mistress and then another ? you talk of it as a mere matter of course . "
" it was with me ; and i did not like it . it was a grovelling fashion of existence : i should never like to return to it .
hiring a mistress is the next worse thing to buying a slave : both are often by nature , and always by position , inferior : and to live familiarly with inferiors is degrading .
i now hate the recollection of the time i passed with celine , giacinta , and clara . "
i felt the truth of these words ; and i drew from them the certain inference , that if i were so far to forget myself and all the teaching that had ever been instilled into me , as--under any pretext--with any justification--through any temptation--to become the successor of these poor girls , he would one day regard me with the same feeling which now in his mind desecrated their memory . i did not give utterance to this conviction : it was enough to feel it .
i impressed it on my heart , that it might remain there to serve me as aid in the time of trial .
" now , jane , why don 't you say ' well , sir ? ' i have not done .
you are looking grave . you disapprove of me still , i see . but let me come to the point .
last january , rid of all mistresses--in a harsh , bitter frame of mind , the result of a useless , roving , lonely life--corroded with disappointment , sourly disposed against all men , and especially against all womankind ( for i began to regard the notion of an intellectual , faithful , loving woman as a mere dream ) , recalled by business , i came back to england .
" on a frosty winter afternoon , i rode in sight of thornfield hall . abhorred spot ! i expected no peace--no pleasure there .
on a stile in hay lane i saw a quiet little figure sitting by itself . i passed it as negligently as i did the pollard willow opposite to it : i had no presentiment of what it would be to me ; no inward warning that the arbitress of my life--my genius for good or evil--waited there in humble guise . i did not know it , even when , on the occasion of mesrour 's accident , it came up and gravely offered me help .
childish and slender creature ! it seemed as if a linnet had hopped to my foot and proposed to bear me on its tiny wing .
i was surly ; but the thing would not go : it stood by me with strange perseverance , and looked and spoke with a sort of authority . i must be aided , and by that hand : and aided i was .
" when once i had pressed the frail shoulder , something new--a fresh sap and sense--stole into my frame .
it was well i had learnt that this elf must return to me--that it belonged to my house down below--or i could not have felt it pass away from under my hand , and seen it vanish behind the dim hedge , without singular regret .
i heard you come home that night , jane , though probably you were not aware that i thought of you or watched for you .
the next day i observed you--myself unseen--for half-an- hour , while you played with adele in the gallery .
it was a snowy day , i recollect , and you could not go out of doors . i was in my room ; the door was ajar : i could both listen and watch .
adele claimed your outward attention for a while ; yet i fancied your thoughts were elsewhere : but you were very patient with her , my little jane ; you talked to her and amused her a long time .
when at last she left you , you lapsed at once into deep reverie : you betook yourself slowly to pace the gallery .
now and then , in passing a casement , you glanced out at the thick-falling snow ; you listened to the sobbing wind , and again you paced gently on and dreamed .
i think those day visions were not dark : there was a pleasurable illumination in your eye occasionally , a soft excitement in your aspect , which told of no bitter , bilious , hypochondriac brooding : your look revealed rather the sweet musings of youth when its spirit follows on willing wings the flight of hope up and on to an ideal heaven .
the voice of mrs. fairfax , speaking to a servant in the hall , wakened you : and how curiously you smiled to and at yourself , janet !
there was much sense in your smile : it was very shrewd , and seemed to make light of your own abstraction . it seemed to say-- ' my fine visions are all very well , but i must not forget they are absolutely unreal . i have a rosy sky and a green flowery eden in my brain ; but without , i am perfectly aware , lies at my feet a rough tract to travel , and around me gather black tempests to encounter . '
you ran downstairs and demanded of mrs. fairfax some occupation : the weekly house accounts to make up , or something of that sort , i think it was . i was vexed with you for getting out of my sight .
" impatiently i waited for evening , when i might summon you to my presence . an unusual--to me--a perfectly new character i suspected was yours : i desired to search it deeper and know it better .
you entered the room with a look and air at once shy and independent : you were quaintly dressed--much as you are now .
i made you talk : ere long i found you full of strange contrasts .
your garb and manner were restricted by rule ; your air was often diffident , and altogether that of one refined by nature , but absolutely unused to society , and a good deal afraid of making herself disadvantageously conspicuous by some solecism or blunder ; yet when addressed , you lifted a keen , a daring , and a glowing eye to your interlocutor 's face : there was penetration and power in each glance you gave ; when plied by close questions , you found ready and round answers .
very soon you seemed to get used to me : i believe you felt the existence of sympathy between you and your grim and cross master , jane ; for it was astonishing to see how quickly a certain pleasant ease tranquillised your manner : snarl as i would , you showed no surprise , fear , annoyance , or displeasure at my moroseness ; you watched me , and now and then smiled at me with a simple yet sagacious grace i cannot describe .
i was at once content and stimulated with what i saw : i liked what i had seen , and wished to see more .
yet , for a long time , i treated you distantly , and sought your company rarely .
i was an intellectual epicure , and wished to prolong the gratification of making this novel and piquant acquaintance : besides , i was for a while troubled with a haunting fear that if i handled the flower freely its bloom would fade--the sweet charm of freshness would leave it . i did not then know that it was no transitory blossom , but rather the radiant resemblance of one , cut in an indestructible gem .
moreover , i wished to see whether you would seek me if i shunned you--but you did not ; you kept in the schoolroom as still as your own desk and easel ; if by chance i met you , you passed me as soon , and with as little token of recognition , as was consistent with respect .
your habitual expression in those days , jane , was a thoughtful look ; not despondent , for you were not sickly ; but not buoyant , for you had little hope , and no actual pleasure .
i wondered what you thought of me , or if you ever thought of me , and resolved to find this out .
" i resumed my notice of you . there was something glad in your glance , and genial in your manner , when you conversed : i saw you had a social heart ; it was the silent schoolroom--it was the tedium of your life--that made you mournful .
i permitted myself the delight of being kind to you ; kindness stirred emotion soon : your face became soft in expression , your tones gentle ; i liked my name pronounced by your lips in a grateful happy accent .
i used to enjoy a chance meeting with you , jane , at this time : there was a curious hesitation in your manner : you glanced at me with a slight trouble--a hovering doubt : you did not know what my caprice might be--whether i was going to play the master and be stern , or the friend and be benignant .
i was now too fond of you often to simulate the first whim ; and , when i stretched my hand out cordially , such bloom and light and bliss rose to your young , wistful features , i had much ado often to avoid straining you then and there to my heart . "
" don 't talk any more of those days , sir , " i interrupted , furtively dashing away some tears from my eyes ; his language was torture to me ; for i knew what i must do--and do soon--and all these reminiscences , and these revelations of his feelings only made my work more difficult .
" no , jane , " he returned : " what necessity is there to dwell on the past , when the present is so much surer--the future so much brighter ? "
i shuddered to hear the infatuated assertion .
" you see now how the case stands--do you not ? " he continued .
" after a youth and manhood passed half in unutterable misery and half in dreary solitude , i have for the first time found what i can truly love--i have found you .
you are my sympathy--my better self--my good angel . i am bound to you with a strong attachment .
i think you good , gifted , lovely : a fervent , a solemn passion is conceived in my heart ; it leans to you , draws you to my centre and spring of life , wraps my existence about you , and , kindling in pure , powerful flame , fuses you and me in one .
" it was because i felt and knew this , that i resolved to marry you . to tell me that i had already a wife is empty mockery : you know now that i had but a hideous demon .
i was wrong to attempt to deceive you ; but i feared a stubbornness that exists in your character . i feared early instilled prejudice : i wanted to have you safe before hazarding confidences .
this was cowardly : i should have appealed to your nobleness and magnanimity at first , as i do now--opened to you plainly my life of agony--described to you my hunger and thirst after a higher and worthier existence--shown to you , not my _ resolution _ ( that word is weak ) , but my resistless _ bent _ to love faithfully and well , where i am faithfully and well loved in return .
then i should have asked you to accept my pledge of fidelity and to give me yours . jane--give it me now . "
a pause .
" why are you silent , jane ? "
i was experiencing an ordeal : a hand of fiery iron grasped my vitals .
terrible moment : full of struggle , blackness , burning !
not a human being that ever lived could wish to be loved better than i was loved ; and him who thus loved me i absolutely worshipped : and i must renounce love and idol . one drear word comprised my intolerable duty-- " depart ! "
" jane , you understand what i want of you ? just this promise-- ' i will be yours , mr. rochester . ' "
" mr. rochester , i will _ not _ be yours . "
another long silence .
" jane ! " recommenced he , with a gentleness that broke me down with grief , and turned me stone-cold with ominous terror--for this still voice was the pant of a lion rising-- " jane , do you mean to go one way in the world , and to let me go another ? "
" i do . "
" jane " ( bending towards and embracing me ) , " do you mean it now ? "
" i do . "
" and now ? " softly kissing my forehead and cheek .
" i do , " extricating myself from restraint rapidly and completely .
" oh , jane , this is bitter ! this--this is wicked .
it would not be wicked to love me . "
" it would to obey you . "
a wild look raised his brows--crossed his features : he rose ; but he forebore yet .
i laid my hand on the back of a chair for support : i shook , i feared--but i resolved .
" one instant , jane .
give one glance to my horrible life when you are gone . all happiness will be torn away with you .
what then is left ?
for a wife i have but the maniac upstairs : as well might you refer me to some corpse in yonder churchyard .
what shall i do , jane ? where turn for a companion and for some hope ? "
" do as i do : trust in god and yourself . believe in heaven . hope to meet again there . "
" then you will not yield ? "
" no . "
" then you condemn me to live wretched and to die accursed ? "
his voice rose .
" i advise you to live sinless , and i wish you to die tranquil . "
" then you snatch love and innocence from me ? you fling me back on lust for a passion--vice for an occupation ? "
" mr. rochester , i no more assign this fate to you than i grasp at it for myself .
we were born to strive and endure--you as well as i : do so . you will forget me before i forget you . "
" you make me a liar by such language : you sully my honour .
i declared i could not change : you tell me to my face i shall change soon . and what a distortion in your judgment , what a perversity in your ideas , is proved by your conduct !
is it better to drive a fellow-creature to despair than to transgress a mere human law , no man being injured by the breach ? for you have neither relatives nor acquaintances whom you need fear to offend by living with me ? "
this was true : and while he spoke my very conscience and reason turned traitors against me , and charged me with crime in resisting him .
they spoke almost as loud as feeling : and that clamoured wildly . " oh , comply ! " it said .
" think of his misery ; think of his danger--look at his state when left alone ; remember his headlong nature ; consider the recklessness following on despair--soothe him ; save him ; love him ; tell him you love him and will be his .
who in the world cares for _ you _ ? or who will be injured by what you do ? "
still indomitable was the reply-- " _ i _ care for myself . the more solitary , the more friendless , the more unsustained i am , the more i will respect myself .
i will keep the law given by god ; sanctioned by man . i will hold to the principles received by me when i was sane , and not mad--as i am now .
laws and principles are not for the times when there is no temptation : they are for such moments as this , when body and soul rise in mutiny against their rigour ; stringent are they ; inviolate they shall be .
if at my individual convenience i might break them , what would be their worth ?
they have a worth--so i have always believed ; and if i cannot believe it now , it is because i am insane--quite insane : with my veins running fire , and my heart beating faster than i can count its throbs .
preconceived opinions , foregone determinations , are all i have at this hour to stand by : there i plant my foot . " i did .
mr. rochester , reading my countenance , saw i had done so .
his fury was wrought to the highest : he must yield to it for a moment , whatever followed ; he crossed the floor and seized my arm and grasped my waist .
he seemed to devour me with his flaming glance : physically , i felt , at the moment , powerless as stubble exposed to the draught and glow of a furnace : mentally , i still possessed my soul , and with it the certainty of ultimate safety .
the soul , fortunately , has an interpreter--often an unconscious , but still a truthful interpreter--in the eye .
my eye rose to his ; and while i looked in his fierce face i gave an involuntary sigh ; his gripe was painful , and my over-taxed strength almost exhausted .
" never , " said he , as he ground his teeth , " never was anything at once so frail and so indomitable .
a mere reed she feels in my hand ! " ( and he shook me with the force of his hold . ) " i could bend her with my finger and thumb : and what good would it do if i bent , if i uptore , if i crushed her ?
consider that eye : consider the resolute , wild , free thing looking out of it , defying me , with more than courage--with a stern triumph .
whatever i do with its cage , i cannot get at it--the savage , beautiful creature ! if i tear , if i rend the slight prison , my outrage will only let the captive loose .
conqueror i might be of the house ; but the inmate would escape to heaven before i could call myself possessor of its clay dwelling-place . and it is you , spirit--with will and energy , and virtue and purity--that i want : not alone your brittle frame .
of yourself you could come with soft flight and nestle against my heart , if you would : seized against your will , you will elude the grasp like an essence--you will vanish ere i inhale your fragrance .
oh ! come , jane , come ! "
as he said this , he released me from his clutch , and only looked at me .
the look was far worse to resist than the frantic strain : only an idiot , however , would have succumbed now .
i had dared and baffled his fury ; i must elude his sorrow : i retired to the door .
" you are going , jane ? "
" i am going , sir . "
" you are leaving me ? "
" yes . "
" you will not come ? you will not be my comforter , my rescuer ?
my deep love , my wild woe , my frantic prayer , are all nothing to you ? "
what unutterable pathos was in his voice ! how hard it was to reiterate firmly , " i am going . "
" jane ! "
" mr. rochester ! "
" withdraw , then , --i consent ; but remember , you leave me here in anguish .
go up to your own room ; think over all i have said , and , jane , cast a glance on my sufferings--think of me . "
he turned away ; he threw himself on his face on the sofa .
" oh , jane ! my hope--my love--my life ! " broke in anguish from his lips .
then came a deep , strong sob .
i had already gained the door ; but , reader , i walked back--walked back as determinedly as i had retreated .
i knelt down by him ; i turned his face from the cushion to me ; i kissed his cheek ; i smoothed his hair with my hand .
" god bless you , my dear master ! " i said . " god keep you from harm and wrong--direct you , solace you--reward you well for your past kindness to me . "
" little jane 's love would have been my best reward , " he answered ; " without it , my heart is broken . but jane will give me her love : yes--nobly , generously . "
up the blood rushed to his face ; forth flashed the fire from his eyes ; erect he sprang ; he held his arms out ; but i evaded the embrace , and at once quitted the room .
" farewell ! " was the cry of my heart as i left him . despair added , " farewell for ever ! "
* * * * * that night i never thought to sleep ; but a slumber fell on me as soon as i lay down in bed .
i was transported in thought to the scenes of childhood : i dreamt i lay in the red-room at gateshead ; that the night was dark , and my mind impressed with strange fears . the light that long ago had struck me into syncope , recalled in this vision , seemed glidingly to mount the wall , and tremblingly to pause in the centre of the obscured ceiling .
i lifted up my head to look : the roof resolved to clouds , high and dim ; the gleam was such as the moon imparts to vapours she is about to sever .
i watched her come--watched with the strangest anticipation ; as though some word of doom were to be written on her disk .
she broke forth as never moon yet burst from cloud : a hand first penetrated the sable folds and waved them away ; then , not a moon , but a white human form shone in the azure , inclining a glorious brow earthward .
it gazed and gazed on me . it spoke to my spirit : immeasurably distant was the tone , yet so near , it whispered in my heart--
" my daughter , flee temptation . "
" mother , i will . "
so i answered after i had waked from the trance-like dream .
it was yet night , but july nights are short : soon after midnight , dawn comes .
" it cannot be too early to commence the task i have to fulfil , " thought i. i rose : i was dressed ; for i had taken off nothing but my shoes .
i knew where to find in my drawers some linen , a locket , a ring .
in seeking these articles , i encountered the beads of a pearl necklace mr. rochester had forced me to accept a few days ago .
i left that ; it was not mine : it was the visionary bride 's who had melted in air .
the other articles i made up in a parcel ; my purse , containing twenty shillings ( it was all i had ) , i put in my pocket : i tied on my straw bonnet , pinned my shawl , took the parcel and my slippers , which i would not put on yet , and stole from my room .
" farewell , kind mrs. fairfax ! " i whispered , as i glided past her door .
" farewell , my darling adele ! " i said , as i glanced towards the nursery . no thought could be admitted of entering to embrace her .
i had to deceive a fine ear : for aught i knew it might now be listening . i would have got past mr. rochester 's chamber without a pause ; but my heart momentarily stopping its beat at that threshold , my foot was forced to stop also .
no sleep was there : the inmate was walking restlessly from wall to wall ; and again and again he sighed while i listened .
there was a heaven--a temporary heaven--in this room for me , if i chose : i had but to go in and to say-- " mr. rochester , i will love you and live with you through life till death , " and a fount of rapture would spring to my lips .
i thought of this .
that kind master , who could not sleep now , was waiting with impatience for day . he would send for me in the morning ; i should be gone . he would have me sought for : vainly . he would feel himself forsaken ; his love rejected : he would suffer ; perhaps grow desperate .
i thought of this too . my hand moved towards the lock : i caught it back , and glided on .
drearily i wound my way downstairs : i knew what i had to do , and i did it mechanically .
i sought the key of the side-door in the kitchen ; i sought , too , a phial of oil and a feather ; i oiled the key and the lock . i got some water , i got some bread : for perhaps i should have to walk far ; and my strength , sorely shaken of late , must not break down . all this i did without one sound .
i opened the door , passed out , shut it softly . dim dawn glimmered in the yard .
the great gates were closed and locked ; but a wicket in one of them was only latched . through that i departed : it , too , i shut ; and now i was out of thornfield .
a mile off , beyond the fields , lay a road which stretched in the contrary direction to millcote ; a road i had never travelled , but often noticed , and wondered where it led : thither i bent my steps .
no reflection was to be allowed now : not one glance was to be cast back ; not even one forward . not one thought was to be given either to the past or the future .
the first was a page so heavenly sweet--so deadly sad--that to read one line of it would dissolve my courage and break down my energy . the last was an awful blank : something like the world when the deluge was gone by .
i skirted fields , and hedges , and lanes till after sunrise .
i believe it was a lovely summer morning : i know my shoes , which i had put on when i left the house , were soon wet with dew . but i looked neither to rising sun , nor smiling sky , nor wakening nature .
he who is taken out to pass through a fair scene to the scaffold , thinks not of the flowers that smile on his road , but of the block and axe-edge ; of the disseverment of bone and vein ; of the grave gaping at the end : and i thought of drear flight and homeless wandering--and oh ! with agony i thought of what i left .
i could not help it . i thought of him now--in his room--watching the sunrise ; hoping i should soon come to say i would stay with him and be his .
i longed to be his ; i panted to return : it was not too late ; i could yet spare him the bitter pang of bereavement .
as yet my flight , i was sure , was undiscovered . i could go back and be his comforter--his pride ; his redeemer from misery , perhaps from ruin .
oh , that fear of his self-abandonment--far worse than my abandonment--how it goaded me !
it was a barbed arrow-head in my breast ; it tore me when i tried to extract it ; it sickened me when remembrance thrust it farther in .
birds began singing in brake and copse : birds were faithful to their mates ; birds were emblems of love .
what was i ?
in the midst of my pain of heart and frantic effort of principle , i abhorred myself .
i had no solace from self-approbation : none even from self-respect . i had injured--wounded--left my master .
i was hateful in my own eyes .
still i could not turn , nor retrace one step .
god must have led me on . as to my own will or conscience , impassioned grief had trampled one and stifled the other .
i was weeping wildly as i walked along my solitary way : fast , fast i went like one delirious .
a weakness , beginning inwardly , extending to the limbs , seized me , and i fell : i lay on the ground some minutes , pressing my face to the wet turf .
i had some fear--or hope--that here i should die : but i was soon up ; crawling forwards on my hands and knees , and then again raised to my feet--as eager and as determined as ever to reach the road .
when i got there , i was forced to sit to rest me under the hedge ; and while i sat , i heard wheels , and saw a coach come on .
i stood up and lifted my hand ; it stopped .
i asked where it was going : the driver named a place a long way off , and where i was sure mr. rochester had no connections .
i asked for what sum he would take me there ; he said thirty shillings ; i answered i had but twenty ; well , he would try to make it do .
he further gave me leave to get into the inside , as the vehicle was empty : i entered , was shut in , and it rolled on its way .
gentle reader , may you never feel what i then felt !
may your eyes never shed such stormy , scalding , heart-wrung tears as poured from mine .
may you never appeal to heaven in prayers so hopeless and so agonised as in that hour left my lips ; for never may you , like me , dread to be the instrument of evil to what you wholly love .
chapter xxviii
two days are passed .
it is a summer evening ; the coachman has set me down at a place called whitcross ; he could take me no farther for the sum i had given , and i was not possessed of another shilling in the world . the coach is a mile off by this time ; i am alone .
at this moment i discover that i forgot to take my parcel out of the pocket of the coach , where i had placed it for safety ; there it remains , there it must remain ; and now , i am absolutely destitute .
whitcross is no town , nor even a hamlet ; it is but a stone pillar set up where four roads meet : whitewashed , i suppose , to be more obvious at a distance and in darkness .
four arms spring from its summit : the nearest town to which these point is , according to the inscription , distant ten miles ; the farthest , above twenty .
from the well-known names of these towns i learn in what county i have lighted ; a north-midland shire , dusk with moorland , ridged with mountain : this i see . there are great moors behind and on each hand of me ; there are waves of mountains far beyond that deep valley at my feet .
the population here must be thin , and i see no passengers on these roads : they stretch out east , west , north , and south--white , broad , lonely ; they are all cut in the moor , and the heather grows deep and wild to their very verge .
yet a chance traveller might pass by ; and i wish no eye to see me now : strangers would wonder what i am doing , lingering here at the sign-post , evidently objectless and lost .
i might be questioned : i could give no answer but what would sound incredible and excite suspicion .
not a tie holds me to human society at this moment--not a charm or hope calls me where my fellow-creatures are--none that saw me would have a kind thought or a good wish for me .
i have no relative but the universal mother , nature : i will seek her breast and ask repose .
i struck straight into the heath ; i held on to a hollow i saw deeply furrowing the brown moorside ; i waded knee-deep in its dark growth ; i turned with its turnings , and finding a moss-blackened granite crag in a hidden angle , i sat down under it . high banks of moor were about me ; the crag protected my head : the sky was over that .
some time passed before i felt tranquil even here : i had a vague dread that wild cattle might be near , or that some sportsman or poacher might discover me .
if a gust of wind swept the waste , i looked up , fearing it was the rush of a bull ; if a plover whistled , i imagined it a man . finding my apprehensions unfounded , however , and calmed by the deep silence that reigned as evening declined at nightfall , i took confidence .
as yet i had not thought ; i had only listened , watched , dreaded ; now i regained the faculty of reflection .
what was i to do ?
where to go ?
oh , intolerable questions , when i could do nothing and go nowhere ! --when a long way must yet be measured by my weary , trembling limbs before i could reach human habitation--when cold charity must be entreated before i could get a lodging : reluctant sympathy importuned , almost certain repulse incurred , before my tale could be listened to , or one of my wants relieved !
i touched the heath : it was dry , and yet warm with the heat of the summer day .
i looked at the sky ; it was pure : a kindly star twinkled just above the chasm ridge . the dew fell , but with propitious softness ; no breeze whispered .
nature seemed to me benign and good ; i thought she loved me , outcast as i was ; and i , who from man could anticipate only mistrust , rejection , insult , clung to her with filial fondness .
to-night , at least , i would be her guest , as i was her child : my mother would lodge me without money and without price .
i had one morsel of bread yet : the remnant of a roll i had bought in a town we passed through at noon with a stray penny--my last coin . i saw ripe bilberries gleaming here and there , like jet beads in the heath : i gathered a handful and ate them with the bread .
my hunger , sharp before , was , if not satisfied , appeased by this hermit 's meal . i said my evening prayers at its conclusion , and then chose my couch .
beside the crag the heath was very deep : when i lay down my feet were buried in it ; rising high on each side , it left only a narrow space for the night-air to invade .
i folded my shawl double , and spread it over me for a coverlet ; a low , mossy swell was my pillow . thus lodged , i was not , at least--at the commencement of the night , cold .
my rest might have been blissful enough , only a sad heart broke it . it plained of its gaping wounds , its inward bleeding , its riven chords .
it trembled for mr. rochester and his doom ; it bemoaned him with bitter pity ; it demanded him with ceaseless longing ; and , impotent as a bird with both wings broken , it still quivered its shattered pinions in vain attempts to seek him .
worn out with this torture of thought , i rose to my knees . night was come , and her planets were risen : a safe , still night : too serene for the companionship of fear .
we know that god is everywhere ; but certainly we feel his presence most when his works are on the grandest scale spread before us ; and it is in the unclouded night-sky , where his worlds wheel their silent course , that we read clearest his infinitude , his omnipotence , his omnipresence .
i had risen to my knees to pray for mr. rochester . looking up , i , with tear-dimmed eyes , saw the mighty milky- way . remembering what it was--what countless systems there swept space like a soft trace of light--i felt the might and strength of god .
sure was i of his efficiency to save what he had made : convinced i grew that neither earth should perish , nor one of the souls it treasured .
i turned my prayer to thanksgiving : the source of life was also the saviour of spirits .
mr. rochester was safe ; he was god 's , and by god would he be guarded .
i again nestled to the breast of the hill ; and ere long in sleep forgot sorrow . but next day , want came to me pale and bare .
long after the little birds had left their nests ; long after bees had come in the sweet prime of day to gather the heath honey before the dew was dried--when the long morning shadows were curtailed , and the sun filled earth and sky--i got up , and i looked round me .
what a still , hot , perfect day ! what a golden desert this spreading moor !
everywhere sunshine . i wished i could live in it and on it .
i saw a lizard run over the crag ; i saw a bee busy among the sweet bilberries . i would fain at the moment have become bee or lizard , that i might have found fitting nutriment , permanent shelter here .
but i was a human being , and had a human being 's wants : i must not linger where there was nothing to supply them . i rose ; i looked back at the bed i had left .
hopeless of the future , i wished but this--that my maker had that night thought good to require my soul of me while i slept ; and that this weary frame , absolved by death from further conflict with fate , had now but to decay quietly , and mingle in peace with the soil of this wilderness .
life , however , was yet in my possession , with all its requirements , and pains , and responsibilities .
the burden must be carried ; the want provided for ; the suffering endured ; the responsibility fulfilled .
i set out .
whitcross regained , i followed a road which led from the sun , now fervent and high . by no other circumstance had i will to decide my choice .
i walked a long time , and when i thought i had nearly done enough , and might conscientiously yield to the fatigue that almost overpowered me--might relax this forced action , and , sitting down on a stone i saw near , submit resistlessly to the apathy that clogged heart and limb--i heard a bell chime--a church bell .
i turned in the direction of the sound , and there , amongst the romantic hills , whose changes and aspect i had ceased to note an hour ago , i saw a hamlet and a spire .
all the valley at my right hand was full of pasture- fields , and cornfields , and wood ; and a glittering stream ran zig-zag through the varied shades of green , the mellowing grain , the sombre woodland , the clear and sunny lea .
recalled by the rumbling of wheels to the road before me , i saw a heavily-laden waggon labouring up the hill , and not far beyond were two cows and their drover .
human life and human labour were near . i must struggle on : strive to live and bend to toil like the rest .
about two o 'clock p.m. i entered the village .
at the bottom of its one street there was a little shop with some cakes of bread in the window . i coveted a cake of bread .
with that refreshment i could perhaps regain a degree of energy : without it , it would be difficult to proceed .
the wish to have some strength and some vigour returned to me as soon as i was amongst my fellow-beings . i felt it would be degrading to faint with hunger on the causeway of a hamlet .
had i nothing about me i could offer in exchange for one of these rolls ?
i considered .
i had a small silk handkerchief tied round my throat ; i had my gloves .
i could hardly tell how men and women in extremities of destitution proceeded . i did not know whether either of these articles would be accepted : probably they would not ; but i must try .
i entered the shop : a woman was there .
seeing a respectably-dressed person , a lady as she supposed , she came forward with civility . how could she serve me ?
i was seized with shame : my tongue would not utter the request i had prepared . i dared not offer her the half-worn gloves , the creased handkerchief : besides , i felt it would be absurd .
i only begged permission to sit down a moment , as i was tired .
disappointed in the expectation of a customer , she coolly acceded to my request . she pointed to a seat ; i sank into it .
i felt sorely urged to weep ; but conscious how unseasonable such a manifestation would be , i restrained it .
soon i asked her " if there were any dressmaker or plain-workwoman in the village ? "
" yes ; two or three . quite as many as there was employment for . "
i reflected .
i was driven to the point now . i was brought face to face with necessity . i stood in the position of one without a resource , without a friend , without a coin .
i must do something . what ?
i must apply somewhere . where ?
" did she know of any place in the neighbourhood where a servant was wanted ? "
" nay ; she couldn 't say . "
" what was the chief trade in this place ? what did most of the people do ? "
" some were farm labourers ; a good deal worked at mr. oliver 's needle-factory , and at the foundry . "
" did mr. oliver employ women ? "
" nay ; it was men 's work . "
" and what do the women do ? " " i knawn 't , " was the answer . " some does one thing , and some another . poor folk mun get on as they can . "
she seemed to be tired of my questions : and , indeed , what claim had i to importune her ?
a neighbour or two came in ; my chair was evidently wanted . i took leave .
i passed up the street , looking as i went at all the houses to the right hand and to the left ; but i could discover no pretext , nor see an inducement to enter any .
i rambled round the hamlet , going sometimes to a little distance and returning again , for an hour or more .
much exhausted , and suffering greatly now for want of food , i turned aside into a lane and sat down under the hedge . ere many minutes had elapsed , i was again on my feet , however , and again searching something--a resource , or at least an informant .
a pretty little house stood at the top of the lane , with a garden before it , exquisitely neat and brilliantly blooming . i stopped at it .
what business had i to approach the white door or touch the glittering knocker ? in what way could it possibly be the interest of the inhabitants of that dwelling to serve me ?
yet i drew near and knocked .
a mild-looking , cleanly-attired young woman opened the door . in such a voice as might be expected from a hopeless heart and fainting frame--a voice wretchedly low and faltering--i asked if a servant was wanted here ?
" no , " said she ; " we do not keep a servant . "
" can you tell me where i could get employment of any kind ? " i continued .
" i am a stranger , without acquaintance in this place . i want some work : no matter what . "
but it was not her business to think for me , or to seek a place for me : besides , in her eyes , how doubtful must have appeared my character , position , tale .
she shook her head , she " was sorry she could give me no information , " and the white door closed , quite gently and civilly : but it shut me out . if she had held it open a little longer , i believe i should have begged a piece of bread ; for i was now brought low .
i could not bear to return to the sordid village , where , besides , no prospect of aid was visible .
i should have longed rather to deviate to a wood i saw not far off , which appeared in its thick shade to offer inviting shelter ; but i was so sick , so weak , so gnawed with nature 's cravings , instinct kept me roaming round abodes where there was a chance of food . solitude would be no solitude--rest no rest--while the vulture , hunger , thus sank beak and talons in my side .
i drew near houses ; i left them , and came back again , and again i wandered away : always repelled by the consciousness of having no claim to ask--no right to expect interest in my isolated lot .
meantime , the afternoon advanced , while i thus wandered about like a lost and starving dog .
in crossing a field , i saw the church spire before me : i hastened towards it .
near the churchyard , and in the middle of a garden , stood a well-built though small house , which i had no doubt was the parsonage .
i remembered that strangers who arrive at a place where they have no friends , and who want employment , sometimes apply to the clergyman for introduction and aid . it is the clergyman 's function to help--at least with advice--those who wished to help themselves .
i seemed to have something like a right to seek counsel here .
renewing then my courage , and gathering my feeble remains of strength , i pushed on . i reached the house , and knocked at the kitchen-door .
an old woman opened : i asked was this the parsonage ?
" yes . "
" was the clergyman in ? "
" no . "
" would he be in soon ? "
" no , he was gone from home . "
" to a distance ? "
" not so far--happen three mile .
he had been called away by the sudden death of his father : he was at marsh end now , and would very likely stay there a fortnight longer . "
" was there any lady of the house ? "
" nay , there was naught but her , and she was housekeeper ; " and of her , reader , i could not bear to ask the relief for want of which i was sinking ; i could not yet beg ; and again i crawled away .
once more i took off my handkerchief--once more i thought of the cakes of bread in the little shop .
oh , for but a crust ! for but one mouthful to allay the pang of famine !
instinctively i turned my face again to the village ; i found the shop again , and i went in ; and though others were there besides the woman i ventured the request-- " would she give me a roll for this handkerchief ? "
she looked at me with evident suspicion : " nay , she never sold stuff i ' that way . "
almost desperate , i asked for half a cake ; she again refused . " how could she tell where i had got the handkerchief ? " she said .
" would she take my gloves ? "
" no ! what could she do with them ? "
reader , it is not pleasant to dwell on these details .
some say there is enjoyment in looking back to painful experience past ; but at this day i can scarcely bear to review the times to which i allude : the moral degradation , blent with the physical suffering , form too distressing a recollection ever to be willingly dwelt on .
i blamed none of those who repulsed me . i felt it was what was to be expected , and what could not be helped : an ordinary beggar is frequently an object of suspicion ; a well-dressed beggar inevitably so .
to be sure , what i begged was employment ; but whose business was it to provide me with employment ?
not , certainly , that of persons who saw me then for the first time , and who knew nothing about my character .
and as to the woman who would not take my handkerchief in exchange for her bread , why , she was right , if the offer appeared to her sinister or the exchange unprofitable .
let me condense now . i am sick of the subject .
a little before dark i passed a farm-house , at the open door of which the farmer was sitting , eating his supper of bread and cheese .
i stopped and said-- " will you give me a piece of bread ? for i am very hungry . "
he cast on me a glance of surprise ; but without answering , he cut a thick slice from his loaf , and gave it to me .
i imagine he did not think i was a beggar , but only an eccentric sort of lady , who had taken a fancy to his brown loaf . as soon as i was out of sight of his house , i sat down and ate it .
i could not hope to get a lodging under a roof , and sought it in the wood i have before alluded to . but my night was wretched , my rest broken : the ground was damp , the air cold : besides , intruders passed near me more than once , and i had again and again to change my quarters ; no sense of safety or tranquillity befriended me .
towards morning it rained ; the whole of the following day was wet .
do not ask me , reader , to give a minute account of that day ; as before , i sought work ; as before , i was repulsed ; as before , i starved ; but once did food pass my lips .
at the door of a cottage i saw a little girl about to throw a mess of cold porridge into a pig trough . " will you give me that ? "
she stared at me .
" mother ! " she exclaimed , " there is a woman wants me to give her these porridge . "
" well lass , " replied a voice within , " give it her if she 's a beggar . t ' pig doesn 't want it . "
the girl emptied the stiffened mould into my hand , and i devoured it ravenously .
as the wet twilight deepened , i stopped in a solitary bridle-path , which i had been pursuing an hour or more .
" my strength is quite failing me , " i said in a soliloquy . " i feel i cannot go much farther . shall i be an outcast again this night ? while the rain descends so , must i lay my head on the cold , drenched ground ?
i fear i cannot do otherwise : for who will receive me ?
but it will be very dreadful , with this feeling of hunger , faintness , chill , and this sense of desolation--this total prostration of hope .
in all likelihood , though , i should die before morning .
and why cannot i reconcile myself to the prospect of death ?
why do i struggle to retain a valueless life ?
because i know , or believe , mr. rochester is living : and then , to die of want and cold is a fate to which nature cannot submit passively .
oh , providence ! sustain me a little longer ! aid ! --direct me ! "
my glazed eye wandered over the dim and misty landscape . i saw i had strayed far from the village : it was quite out of sight .
the very cultivation surrounding it had disappeared . i had , by cross-ways and by- paths , once more drawn near the tract of moorland ; and now , only a few fields , almost as wild and unproductive as the heath from which they were scarcely reclaimed , lay between me and the dusky hill .
" well , i would rather die yonder than in a street or on a frequented road , " i reflected . " and far better that crows and ravens--if any ravens there be in these regions--should pick my flesh from my bones , than that they should be prisoned in a workhouse coffin and moulder in a pauper 's grave . "
to the hill , then , i turned . i reached it .
it remained now only to find a hollow where i could lie down , and feel at least hidden , if not secure . but all the surface of the waste looked level .
it showed no variation but of tint : green , where rush and moss overgrew the marshes ; black , where the dry soil bore only heath .
dark as it was getting , i could still see these changes , though but as mere alternations of light and shade ; for colour had faded with the daylight .
my eye still roved over the sullen swell and along the moor-edge , vanishing amidst the wildest scenery , when at one dim point , far in among the marshes and the ridges , a light sprang up .
" that is an _ ignis fatuus _ , " was my first thought ; and i expected it would soon vanish . it burnt on , however , quite steadily , neither receding nor advancing .
" is it , then , a bonfire just kindled ? "
i questioned . i watched to see whether it would spread : but no ; as it did not diminish , so it did not enlarge .
" it may be a candle in a house , " i then conjectured ; " but if so , i can never reach it . it is much too far away : and were it within a yard of me , what would it avail ?
