however , i travelled along the shore of the sea towards the east , i suppose about twelve miles , and then setting up a great pole upon the shore for a mark , i concluded i would go home again , and that the next journey i took should be on the other side of the island east from my dwelling , and so round till i came to my post again .
i took another way to come back than that i went , thinking i could easily keep all the island so much in my view that i could not miss finding my first dwelling by viewing the country ; but i found myself mistaken , for being come about two or three miles , i found myself descended into a very large valley , but so surrounded with hills , and those hills covered with wood , that i could not see which was my way by any direction but that of the sun , nor even then , unless i knew very well the position of the sun at that time of the day .
it happened , to my further misfortune , that the weather proved hazy for three or four days while i was in the valley , and not being able to see the sun , i wandered about very uncomfortably , and at last was obliged to find the seaside , look for my post , and come back the same way i went : and then , by easy journeys , i turned homeward , the weather being exceeding hot , and my gun , ammunition , hatchet , and other things very heavy .
in this journey my dog surprised a young kid , and seized upon it ; and i , running in to take hold of it , caught it , and saved it alive from the dog .
i had a great mind to bring it home if i could , for i had often been musing whether it might not be possible to get a kid or two , and so raise a breed of tame goats , which might supply me when my powder and shot should be all spent .
i made a collar for this little creature , and with a string , which i made of some rope-yam , which i always carried about me , i led him along , though with some difficulty , till i came to my bower , and there i enclosed him and left him , for i was very impatient to be at home , from whence i had been absent above a month .
i cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to come into my old hutch , and lie down in my hammock-bed .
this little wandering journey , without settled place of abode , had been so unpleasant to me , that my own house , as i called it to myself , was a perfect settlement to me compared to that ; and it rendered everything about me so comfortable , that i resolved i would never go a great way from it again while it should be my lot to stay on the island .
i reposed myself here a week , to rest and regale myself after my long journey ; during which most of the time was taken up in the weighty affair of making a cage for my poll , who began now to be a mere domestic , and to be well acquainted with me .
then i began to think of the poor kid which i had penned in within my little circle , and resolved to go and fetch it home , or give it some food ; accordingly i went , and found it where i left it , for indeed it could not get out , but was almost starved for want of food .
i went and cut boughs of trees , and branches of such shrubs as i could find , and threw it over , and having fed it , i tied it as i did before , to lead it away ; but it was so tame with being hungry , that i had no need to have tied it , for it followed me like a dog : and as i continually fed it , the creature became so loving , so gentle , and so fond , that it became from that time one of my domestics also , and would never leave me afterwards .
the rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come , and i kept the 30th of september in the same solemn manner as before , being the anniversary of my landing on the island , having now been there two years , and no more prospect of being delivered than the first day i came there , i spent the whole day in humble and thankful acknowledgments of the many wonderful mercies which my solitary condition was attended with , and without which it might have been infinitely more miserable .
i gave humble and hearty thanks that god had been pleased to discover to me that it was possible i might be more happy in this solitary condition than i should have been in the liberty of society , and in all the pleasures of the world ; that he could fully make up to me the deficiencies of my solitary state , and the want of human society , by his presence and the communications of his grace to my soul ; supporting , comforting , and encouraging me to depend upon his providence here , and hope for his eternal presence hereafter .
it was now that i began sensibly to feel how much more happy this life i now led was , with all its miserable circumstances , than the wicked , cursed , abominable life i led all the past part of my days ; and now i changed both my sorrows and my joys ; my very desires altered , my affections changed their gusts , and my delights were perfectly new from what they were at my first coming , or , indeed , for the two years past .
before , as i walked about , either on my hunting or for viewing the country , the anguish of my soul at my condition would break out upon me on a sudden , and my very heart would die within me , to think of the woods , the mountains , the deserts i was in , and how i was a prisoner , locked up with the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean , in an uninhabited wilderness , without redemption .
in the midst of the greatest composure of my mind , this would break out upon me like a storm , and make me wring my hands and weep like a child .
sometimes it would take me in the middle of my work , and i would immediately sit down and sigh , and look upon the ground for an hour or two together ; and this was still worse to me , for if i could burst out into tears , or vent myself by words , it would go off , and the grief , having exhausted itself , would abate .
but now i began to exercise myself with new thoughts : i daily read the word of god , and applied all the comforts of it to my present state .
one morning , being very sad , i opened the bible upon these words , " i will never , never leave thee , nor forsake thee . "
immediately it occurred that these words were to me ; why else should they be directed in such a manner , just at the moment when i was mourning over my condition , as one forsaken of god and man ? " well , then , " said i , " if god does not forsake me , of what ill consequence can it be , or what matters it , though the world should all forsake me , seeing on the other hand , if i had all the world , and should lose the favour and blessing of god , there would be no comparison in the loss ? "
from this moment i began to conclude in my mind that it was possible for me to be more happy in this forsaken , solitary condition than it was probable i should ever have been in any other particular state in the world ; and with this thought i was going to give thanks to god for bringing me to this place .
i know not what it was , but something shocked my mind at that thought , and i durst not speak the words . " how canst thou become such a hypocrite , " said i , even audibly , " to pretend to be thankful for a condition which , however thou mayest endeavour to be contented with , thou wouldst rather pray heartily to be delivered from ? "
so i stopped there ; but though i could not say i thanked god for being there , yet i sincerely gave thanks to god for opening my eyes , by whatever afflicting providences , to see the former condition of my life , and to mourn for my wickedness , and repent . i never opened the bible , or shut it , but my very soul within me blessed god for directing my friend in england , without any order of mine , to pack it up among my goods , and for assisting me afterwards to save it out of the wreck of the ship .
thus , and in this disposition of mind , i began my third year ; and though i have not given the reader the trouble of so particular an account of my works this year as the first , yet in general it may be observed that i was very seldom idle , but having regularly divided my time according to the several daily employments that were before me , such as : first , my duty to god , and the reading the scriptures , which i constantly set apart some time for thrice every day ; secondly , the going abroad with my gun for food , which generally took me up three hours in every morning , when it did not rain ; thirdly , the ordering , cutting , preserving , and cooking what i had killed or caught for my supply ; these took up great part of the day .
also , it is to be considered , that in the middle of the day , when the sun was in the zenith , the violence of the heat was too great to stir out ; so that about four hours in the evening was all the time i could be supposed to work in , with this exception , that sometimes i changed my hours of hunting and working , and went to work in the morning , and abroad with my gun in the afternoon .
to this short time allowed for labour i desire may be added the exceeding laboriousness of my work ; the many hours which , for want of tools , want of help , and want of skill , everything i did took up out of my time .
for example , i was full two and forty days in making a board for a long shelf , which i wanted in my cave ; whereas , two sawyers , with their tools and a saw-pit , would have cut six of them out of the same tree in half a day .
my case was this : it was to be a large tree which was to be cut down , because my board was to be a broad one .
this tree i was three days in cutting down , and two more cutting off the boughs , and reducing it to a log or piece of timber .
with inexpressible hacking and hewing i reduced both the sides of it into chips till it began to be light enough to move ; then i turned it , and made one side of it smooth and flat as a board from end to end ; then , turning that side downward , cut the other side til i brought the plank to be about three inches thick , and smooth on both sides .
any one may judge the labour of my hands in such a piece of work ; but labour and patience carried me through that , and many other things . i only observe this in particular , to show the reason why so much of my time went away with so little work - viz. that what might be a little to be done with help and tools , was a vast labour and required a prodigious time to do alone , and by hand .
but notwithstanding this , with patience and labour i got through everything that my circumstances made necessary to me to do , as will appear by what follows .
i was now , in the months of november and december , expecting my crop of barley and rice .
the ground i had manured and dug up for them was not great ; for , as i observed , my seed of each was not above the quantity of half a peck , for i had lost one whole crop by sowing in the dry season .
but now my crop promised very well , when on a sudden i found i was in danger of losing it all again by enemies of several sorts , which it was scarcely possible to keep from it ; as , first , the goats , and wild creatures which i called hares , who , tasting the sweetness of the blade , lay in it night and day , as soon as it came up , and eat it so close , that it could get no time to shoot up into stalk .
this i saw no remedy for but by making an enclosure about it with a hedge ; which i did with a great deal of toil , and the more , because it required speed .
however , as my arable land was but small , suited to my crop , i got it totally well fenced in about three weeks ' time ; and shooting some of the creatures in the daytime , i set my dog to guard it in the night , tying him up to a stake at the gate , where he would stand and bark all night long ; so in a little time the enemies forsook the place , and the corn grew very strong and well , and began to ripen apace .
but as the beasts ruined me before , while my corn was in the blade , so the birds were as likely to ruin me now , when it was in the ear ; for , going along by the place to see how it throve , i saw my little crop surrounded with fowls , of i know not how many sorts , who stood , as it were , watching till i should be gone .
i immediately let fly among them , for i always had my gun with me . i had no sooner shot , but there rose up a little cloud of fowls , which i had not seen at all , from among the corn itself .
this touched me sensibly , for i foresaw that in a few days they would devour all my hopes ; that i should be starved , and never be able to raise a crop at all ; and what to do i could not tell ; however , i resolved not to lose my corn , if possible , though i should watch it night and day .
in the first place , i went among it to see what damage was already done , and found they had spoiled a good deal of it ; but that as it was yet too green for them , the loss was not so great but that the remainder was likely to be a good crop if it could be saved .
i stayed by it to load my gun , and then coming away , i could easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees about me , as if they only waited till i was gone away , and the event proved it to be so ; for as i walked off , as if i was gone , i was no sooner out of their sight than they dropped down one by one into the corn again .
i was so provoked , that i could not have patience to stay till more came on , knowing that every grain that they ate now was , as it might be said , a peck-loaf to me in the consequence ; but coming up to the hedge , i fired again , and killed three of them .
this was what i wished for ; so i took them up , and served them as we serve notorious thieves in england - hanged them in chains , for a terror to others .
it is impossible to imagine that this should have such an effect as it had , for the fowls would not only not come at the corn , but , in short , they forsook all that part of the island , and i could never see a bird near the place as long as my scarecrows hung there .
this i was very glad of , you may be sure , and about the latter end of december , which was our second harvest of the year , i reaped my corn .
i was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it down , and all i could do was to make one , as well as i could , out of one of the broadswords , or cutlasses , which i saved among the arms out of the ship .
however , as my first crop was but small , i had no great difficulty to cut it down ; in short , i reaped it in my way , for i cut nothing off but the ears , and carried it away in a great basket which i had made , and so rubbed it out with my hands ; and at the end of all my harvesting , i found that out of my half-peck of seed i had near two bushels of rice , and about two bushels and a half of barley ; that is to say , by my guess , for i had no measure at that time .
however , this was a great encouragement to me , and i foresaw that , in time , it would please god to supply me with bread .
and yet here i was perplexed again , for i neither knew how to grind or make meal of my corn , or indeed how to clean it and part it ; nor , if made into meal , how to make bread of it ; and if how to make it , yet i knew not how to bake it .
these things being added to my desire of having a good quantity for store , and to secure a constant supply , i resolved not to taste any of this crop but to preserve it all for seed against the next season ; and in the meantime to employ all my study and hours of working to accomplish this great work of providing myself with corn and bread .
it might be truly said , that now i worked for my bread .
i believe few people have thought much upon the strange multitude of little things necessary in the providing , producing , curing , dressing , making , and finishing this one article of bread .
i , that was reduced to a mere state of nature , found this to my daily discouragement ; and was made more sensible of it every hour , even after i had got the first handful of seed-corn , which , as i have said , came up unexpectedly , and indeed to a surprise .
first , i had no plough to turn up the earth - no spade or shovel to dig it .
well , this i conquered by making me a wooden spade , as i observed before ; but this did my work but in a wooden manner ; and though it cost me a great many days to make it , yet , for want of iron , it not only wore out soon , but made my work the harder , and made it be performed much worse .
however , this i bore with , and was content to work it out with patience , and bear with the badness of the performance .
when the corn was sown , i had no harrow , but was forced to go over it myself , and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it , to scratch it , as it may be called , rather than rake or harrow it .
when it was growing , and grown , i have observed already how many things i wanted to fence it , secure it , mow or reap it , cure and carry it home , thrash , part it from the chaff , and save it .
then i wanted a mill to grind it sieves to dress it , yeast and salt to make it into bread , and an oven to bake it ; but all these things i did without , as shall be observed ; and yet the corn was an inestimable comfort and advantage to me too .
all this , as i said , made everything laborious and tedious to me ; but that there was no help for .
neither was my time so much loss to me , because , as i had divided it , a certain part of it was every day appointed to these works ; and as i had resolved to use none of the corn for bread till i had a greater quantity by me , i had the next six months to apply myself wholly , by labour and invention , to furnish myself with utensils proper for the performing all the operations necessary for making the corn , when i had it , fit for my use .
chapter ix - a boat
but first i was to prepare more land , for i had now seed enough to sow above an acre of ground . before i did this , i had a week 's work at least to make me a spade , which , when it was done , was but a sorry one indeed , and very heavy , and required double labour to work with it .
however , i got through that , and sowed my seed in two large flat pieces of ground , as near my house as i could find them to my mind , and fenced them in with a good hedge , the stakes of which were all cut off that wood which i had set before , and knew it would grow ; so that , in a year 's time , i knew i should have a quick or living hedge , that would want but little repair . this work did not take me up less than three months , because a great part of that time was the wet season , when i could not go abroad .
within-doors , that is when it rained and i could not go out , i found employment in the following occupations - always observing , that all the while i was at work i diverted myself with talking to my parrot , and teaching him to speak ; and i quickly taught him to know his own name , and at last to speak it out pretty loud , " poll , " which was the first word i ever heard spoken in the island by any mouth but my own .
this , therefore , was not my work , but an assistance to my work ; for now , as i said , i had a great employment upon my hands , as follows : i had long studied to make , by some means or other , some earthen vessels , which , indeed , i wanted sorely , but knew not where to come at them .
however , considering the heat of the climate , i did not doubt but if i could find out any clay , i might make some pots that might , being dried in the sun , be hard enough and strong enough to bear handling , and to hold anything that was dry , and required to be kept so ; and as this was necessary in the preparing corn , meal , & c . , which was the thing i was doing , i resolved to make some as large as i could , and fit only to stand like jars , to hold what should be put into them .
it would make the reader pity me , or rather laugh at me , to tell how many awkward ways i took to raise this paste ; what odd , misshapen , ugly things i made ; how many of them fell in and how many fell out , the clay not being stiff enough to bear its own weight ; how many cracked by the over-violent heat of the sun , being set out too hastily ; and how many fell in pieces with only removing , as well before as after they were dried ; and , in a word , how , after having laboured hard to find the clay - to dig it , to temper it , to bring it home , and work it - i could not make above two large earthen ugly things ( i cannot call them jars ) in about two months ' labour .
however , as the sun baked these two very dry and hard , i lifted them very gently up , and set them down again in two great wicker baskets , which i had made on purpose for them , that they might not break ; and as between the pot and the basket there was a little room to spare , i stuffed it full of the rice and barley straw ; and these two pots being to stand always dry i thought would hold my dry corn , and perhaps the meal , when the corn was bruised .
though i miscarried so much in my design for large pots , yet i made several smaller things with better success ; such as little round pots , flat dishes , pitchers , and pipkins , and any things my hand turned to ; and the heat of the sun baked them quite hard .
but all this would not answer my end , which was to get an earthen pot to hold what was liquid , and bear the fire , which none of these could do .
it happened after some time , making a pretty large fire for cooking my meat , when i went to put it out after i had done with it , i found a broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the fire , burnt as hard as a stone , and red as a tile .
i was agreeably surprised to see it , and said to myself , that certainly they might be made to burn whole , if they would burn broken .
this set me to study how to order my fire , so as to make it burn some pots .
i had no notion of a kiln , such as the potters burn in , or of glazing them with lead , though i had some lead to do it with ; but i placed three large pipkins and two or three pots in a pile , one upon another , and placed my firewood all round it , with a great heap of embers under them .
i plied the fire with fresh fuel round the outside and upon the top , till i saw the pots in the inside red-hot quite through , and observed that they did not crack at all .
when i saw them clear red , i let them stand in that heat about five or six hours , till i found one of them , though it did not crack , did melt or run ; for the sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the violence of the heat , and would have run into glass if i had gone on ; so i slacked my fire gradually till the pots began to abate of the red colour ; and watching them all night , that i might not let the fire abate too fast , in the morning i had three very good ( i will not say handsome ) pipkins , and two other earthen pots , as hard burnt as could be desired , and one of them perfectly glazed with the running of the sand .
after this experiment , i need not say that i wanted no sort of earthenware for my use ; but i must needs say as to the shapes of them , they were very indifferent , as any one may suppose , when i had no way of making them but as the children make dirt pies , or as a woman would make pies that never learned to raise paste .
no joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to mine , when i found i had made an earthen pot that would bear the fire ; and i had hardly patience to stay till they were cold before i set one on the fire again with some water in it to boil me some meat , which it did admirably well ; and with a piece of a kid i made some very good broth , though i wanted oatmeal , and several other ingredients requisite to make it as good as i would have had it been .
my next concern was to get me a stone mortar to stamp or beat some corn in ; for as to the mill , there was no thought of arriving at that perfection of art with one pair of hands .
to supply this want , i was at a great loss ; for , of all the trades in the world , i was as perfectly unqualified for a stone-cutter as for any whatever ; neither had i any tools to go about it with .
i spent many a day to find out a great stone big enough to cut hollow , and make fit for a mortar , and could find none at all , except what was in the solid rock , and which i had no way to dig or cut out ; nor indeed were the rocks in the island of hardness sufficient , but were all of a sandy , crumbling stone , which neither would bear the weight of a heavy pestle , nor would break the corn without filling it with sand .
so , after a great deal of time lost in searching for a stone , i gave it over , and resolved to look out for a great block of hard wood , which i found , indeed , much easier ; and getting one as big as i had strength to stir , i rounded it , and formed it on the outside with my axe and hatchet , and then with the help of fire and infinite labour , made a hollow place in it , as the indians in brazil make their canoes .
after this , i made a great heavy pestle or beater of the wood called the iron-wood ; and this i prepared and laid by against i had my next crop of corn , which i proposed to myself to grind , or rather pound into meal to make bread .
my next difficulty was to make a sieve or searce , to dress my meal , and to part it from the bran and the husk ; without which i did not see it possible i could have any bread . this was a most difficult thing even to think on , for to be sure i had nothing like the necessary thing to make it - i mean fine thin canvas or stuff to searce the meal through .
and here i was at a full stop for many months ; nor did i really know what to do .
linen i had none left but what was mere rags ; i had goat 's hair , but neither knew how to weave it or spin it ; and had i known how , here were no tools to work it with .
all the remedy that i found for this was , that at last i did remember i had , among the seamen 's clothes which were saved out of the ship , some neckcloths of calico or muslin ; and with some pieces of these i made three small sieves proper enough for the work ; and thus i made shift for some years : how i did afterwards , i shall show in its place .
the baking part was the next thing to be considered , and how i should make bread when i came to have corn ; for first , i had no yeast .
as to that part , there was no supplying the want , so i did not concern myself much about it .
but for an oven i was indeed in great pain .
at length i found out an experiment for that also , which was this : i made some earthen-vessels very broad but not deep , that is to say , about two feet diameter , and not above nine inches deep .
these i burned in the fire , as i had done the other , and laid them by ; and when i wanted to bake , i made a great fire upon my hearth , which i had paved with some square tiles of my own baking and burning also ; but i should not call them square .
when the firewood was burned pretty much into embers or live coals , i drew them forward upon this hearth , so as to cover it all over , and there i let them lie till the hearth was very hot .
then sweeping away all the embers , i set down my loaf or loaves , and whelming down the earthen pot upon them , drew the embers all round the outside of the pot , to keep in and add to the heat ; and thus as well as in the best oven in the world , i baked my barley-loaves , and became in little time a good pastrycook into the bargain ; for i made myself several cakes and puddings of the rice ; but i made no pies , neither had i anything to put into them supposing i had , except the flesh either of fowls or goats .
it need not be wondered at if all these things took me up most part of the third year of my abode here ; for it is to be observed that in the intervals of these things i had my new harvest and husbandry to manage ; for i reaped my corn in its season , and carried it home as well as i could , and laid it up in the ear , in my large baskets , till i had time to rub it out , for i had no floor to thrash it on , or instrument to thrash it with .
and now , indeed , my stock of corn increasing , i really wanted to build my barns bigger ; i wanted a place to lay it up in , for the increase of the corn now yielded me so much , that i had of the barley about twenty bushels , and of the rice as much or more ; insomuch that now i resolved to begin to use it freely ; for my bread had been quite gone a great while ; also i resolved to see what quantity would be sufficient for me a whole year , and to sow but once a year .
upon the whole , i found that the forty bushels of barley and rice were much more than i could consume in a year ; so i resolved to sow just the same quantity every year that i sowed the last , in hopes that such a quantity would fully provide me with bread , & c .
all the while these things were doing , you may be sure my thoughts ran many times upon the prospect of land which i had seen from the other side of the island ; and i was not without secret wishes that i were on shore there , fancying that , seeing the mainland , and an inhabited country , i might find some way or other to convey myself further , and perhaps at last find some means of escape .
but all this while i made no allowance for the dangers of such an undertaking , and how i might fall into the hands of savages , and perhaps such as i might have reason to think far worse than the lions and tigers of africa : that if i once came in their power , i should run a hazard of more than a thousand to one of being killed , and perhaps of being eaten ; for i had heard that the people of the caribbean coast were cannibals or man-eaters , and i knew by the latitude that i could not be far from that shore .
then , supposing they were not cannibals , yet they might kill me , as many europeans who had fallen into their hands had been served , even when they had been ten or twenty together - much more i , that was but one , and could make little or no defence ; all these things , i say , which i ought to have considered well ; and did come into my thoughts afterwards , yet gave me no apprehensions at first , and my head ran mightily upon the thought of getting over to the shore .
now i wished for my boy xury , and the long-boat with shoulder-of-mutton sail , with which i sailed above a thousand miles on the coast of africa ; but this was in vain : then i thought i would go and look at our ship 's boat , which , as i have said , was blown up upon the shore a great way , in the storm , when we were first cast away .
she lay almost where she did at first , but not quite ; and was turned , by the force of the waves and the winds , almost bottom upward , against a high ridge of beachy , rough sand , but no water about her .
if i had had hands to have refitted her , and to have launched her into the water , the boat would have done well enough , and i might have gone back into the brazils with her easily enough ; but i might have foreseen that i could no more turn her and set her upright upon her bottom than i could remove the island ; however , i went to the woods , and cut levers and rollers , and brought them to the boat resolving to try what i could do ; suggesting to myself that if i could but turn her down , i might repair the damage she had received , and she would be a very good boat , and i might go to sea in her very easily .
i spared no pains , indeed , in this piece of fruitless toil , and spent , i think , three or four weeks about it ; at last finding it impossible to heave it up with my little strength , i fell to digging away the sand , to undermine it , and so to make it fall down , setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide it right in the fall .
but when i had done this , i was unable to stir it up again , or to get under it , much less to move it forward towards the water ; so i was forced to give it over ; and yet , though i gave over the hopes of the boat , my desire to venture over for the main increased , rather than decreased , as the means for it seemed impossible .
this at length put me upon thinking whether it was not possible to make myself a canoe , or periagua , such as the natives of those climates make , even without tools , or , as i might say , without hands , of the trunk of a great tree .
this i not only thought possible , but easy , and pleased myself extremely with the thoughts of making it , and with my having much more convenience for it than any of the negroes or indians ; but not at all considering the particular inconveniences which i lay under more than the indians did - viz. want of hands to move it , when it was made , into the water - a difficulty much harder for me to surmount than all the consequences of want of tools could be to them ; for what was it to me , if when i had chosen a vast tree in the woods , and with much trouble cut it down , if i had been able with my tools to hew and dub the outside into the proper shape of a boat , and burn or cut out the inside to make it hollow , so as to make a boat of it - if , after all this , i must leave it just there where i found it , and not be able to launch it into the water ?
one would have thought i could not have had the least reflection upon my mind of my circumstances while i was making this boat , but i should have immediately thought how i should get it into the sea ; but my thoughts were so intent upon my voyage over the sea in it , that i never once considered how i should get it off the land : and it was really , in its own nature , more easy for me to guide it over forty-five miles of sea than about forty-five fathoms of land , where it lay , to set it afloat in the water .
i went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever man did who had any of his senses awake .
i pleased myself with the design , without determining whether i was ever able to undertake it ; not but that the difficulty of launching my boat came often into my head ; but i put a stop to my inquiries into it by this foolish answer which i gave myself - " let me first make it ; i warrant i will find some way or other to get it along when it is done . "
this was a most preposterous method ; but the eagerness of my fancy prevailed , and to work i went .
i felled a cedar-tree , and i question much whether solomon ever had such a one for the building of the temple of jerusalem ; it was five feet ten inches diameter at the lower part next the stump , and four feet eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two feet ; after which it lessened for a while , and then parted into branches .
it was not without infinite labour that i felled this tree ; i was twenty days hacking and hewing at it at the bottom ; i was fourteen more getting the branches and limbs and the vast spreading head cut off , which i hacked and hewed through with axe and hatchet , and inexpressible labour ; after this , it cost me a month to shape it and dub it to a proportion , and to something like the bottom of a boat , that it might swim upright as it ought to do .
it cost me near three months more to clear the inside , and work it out so as to make an exact boat of it ; this i did , indeed , without fire , by mere mallet and chisel , and by the dint of hard labour , till i had brought it to be a very handsome periagua , and big enough to have carried six-and-twenty men , and consequently big enough to have carried me and all my cargo .
when i had gone through this work i was extremely delighted with it . the boat was really much bigger than ever i saw a canoe or periagua , that was made of one tree , in my life .
many a weary stroke it had cost , you may be sure ; and had i gotten it into the water , i make no question , but i should have begun the maddest voyage , and the most unlikely to be performed , that ever was undertaken .
but all my devices to get it into the water failed me ; though they cost me infinite labour too .
it lay about one hundred yards from the water , and not more ; but the first inconvenience was , it was up hill towards the creek .
well , to take away this discouragement , i resolved to dig into the surface of the earth , and so make a declivity : this i began , and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains ( but who grudge pains who have their deliverance in view ? ) ; but when this was worked through , and this difficulty managed , it was still much the same , for i could no more stir the canoe than i could the other boat .
then i measured the distance of ground , and resolved to cut a dock or canal , to bring the water up to the canoe , seeing i could not bring the canoe down to the water .
well , i began this work ; and when i began to enter upon it , and calculate how deep it was to be dug , how broad , how the stuff was to be thrown out , i found that , by the number of hands i had , being none but my own , it must have been ten or twelve years before i could have gone through with it ; for the shore lay so high , that at the upper end it must have been at least twenty feet deep ; so at length , though with great reluctancy , i gave this attempt over also .
this grieved me heartily ; and now i saw , though too late , the folly of beginning a work before we count the cost , and before we judge rightly of our own strength to go through with it .
in the middle of this work i finished my fourth year in this place , and kept my anniversary with the same devotion , and with as much comfort as ever before ; for , by a constant study and serious application to the word of god , and by the assistance of his grace , i gained a different knowledge from what i had before . i entertained different notions of things .
i looked now upon the world as a thing remote , which i had nothing to do with , no expectations from , and , indeed , no desires about : in a word , i had nothing indeed to do with it , nor was ever likely to have , so i thought it looked , as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter - viz. as a place i had lived in , but was come out of it ; and well might i say , as father abraham to dives , " between me and thee is a great gulf fixed . "
in the first place , i was removed from all the wickedness of the world here ; i had neither the lusts of the flesh , the lusts of the eye , nor the pride of life .
i had nothing to covet , for i had all that i was now capable of enjoying ; i was lord of the whole manor ; or , if i pleased , i might call myself king or emperor over the whole country which i had possession of : there were no rivals ; i had no competitor , none to dispute sovereignty or command with me : i might have raised ship-loadings of corn , but i had no use for it ; so i let as little grow as i thought enough for my occasion .
i had tortoise or turtle enough , but now and then one was as much as i could put to any use : i had timber enough to have built a fleet of ships ; and i had grapes enough to have made wine , or to have cured into raisins , to have loaded that fleet when it had been built .
but all i could make use of was all that was valuable : i had enough to eat and supply my wants , and what was all the rest to me ?
if i killed more flesh than i could eat , the dog must eat it , or vermin ; if i sowed more corn than i could eat , it must be spoiled ; the trees that i cut down were lying to rot on the ground ; i could make no more use of them but for fuel , and that i had no occasion for but to dress my food .
in a word , the nature and experience of things dictated to me , upon just reflection , that all the good things of this world are no farther good to us than they are for our use ; and that , whatever we may heap up to give others , we enjoy just as much as we can use , and no more .
the most covetous , griping miser in the world would have been cured of the vice of covetousness if he had been in my case ; for i possessed infinitely more than i knew what to do with .
i had no room for desire , except it was of things which i had not , and they were but trifles , though , indeed , of great use to me .
i had , as i hinted before , a parcel of money , as well gold as silver , about thirty-six pounds sterling . alas ! there the sorry , useless stuff lay ; i had no more manner of business for it ; and often thought with myself that i would have given a handful of it for a gross of tobacco-pipes ; or for a hand-mill to grind my corn ; nay , i would have given it all for a sixpenny-worth of turnip and carrot seed out of england , or for a handful of peas and beans , and a bottle of ink .
as it was , i had not the least advantage by it or benefit from it ; but there it lay in a drawer , and grew mouldy with the damp of the cave in the wet seasons ; and if i had had the drawer full of diamonds , it had been the same case - they had been of no manner of value to me , because of no use .
i had now brought my state of life to be much easier in itself than it was at first , and much easier to my mind , as well as to my body .
i frequently sat down to meat with thankfulness , and admired the hand of god 's providence , which had thus spread my table in the wilderness .
i learned to look more upon the bright side of my condition , and less upon the dark side , and to consider what i enjoyed rather than what i wanted ; and this gave me sometimes such secret comforts , that i cannot express them ; and which i take notice of here , to put those discontented people in mind of it , who cannot enjoy comfortably what god has given them , because they see and covet something that he has not given them .
all our discontents about what we want appeared to me to spring from the want of thankfulness for what we have .
another reflection was of great use to me , and doubtless would be so to any one that should fall into such distress as mine was ; and this was , to compare my present condition with what i at first expected it would be ; nay , with what it would certainly have been , if the good providence of god had not wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast up nearer to the shore , where i not only could come at her , but could bring what i got out of her to the shore , for my relief and comfort ; without which , i had wanted for tools to work , weapons for defence , and gunpowder and shot for getting my food .
i spent whole hours , i may say whole days , in representing to myself , in the most lively colours , how i must have acted if i had got nothing out of the ship . how i could not have so much as got any food , except fish and turtles ; and that , as it was long before i found any of them , i must have perished first ; that i should have lived , if i had not perished , like a mere savage ; that if i had killed a goat or a fowl , by any contrivance , i had no way to flay or open it , or part the flesh from the skin and the bowels , or to cut it up ; but must gnaw it with my teeth , and pull it with my claws , like a beast .
these reflections made me very sensible of the goodness of providence to me , and very thankful for my present condition , with all its hardships and misfortunes ; and this part also i cannot but recommend to the reflection of those who are apt , in their misery , to say , " is any affliction like mine ? " let them consider how much worse the cases of some people are , and their case might have been , if providence had thought fit .
i had another reflection , which assisted me also to comfort my mind with hopes ; and this was comparing my present situation with what i had deserved , and had therefore reason to expect from the hand of providence .
i had lived a dreadful life , perfectly destitute of the knowledge and fear of god .
i had been well instructed by father and mother ; neither had they been wanting to me in their early endeavours to infuse a religious awe of god into my mind , a sense of my duty , and what the nature and end of my being required of me . but , alas ! falling early into the seafaring life , which of all lives is the most destitute of the fear of god , though his terrors are always before them ; i say , falling early into the seafaring life , and into seafaring company , all that little sense of religion which i had entertained was laughed out of me by my messmates ; by a hardened despising of dangers , and the views of death , which grew habitual to me by my long absence from all manner of opportunities to converse with anything but what was like myself , or to hear anything that was good or tended towards it .
so void was i of everything that was good , or the least sense of what i was , or was to be , that , in the greatest deliverances i enjoyed - such as my escape from sallee ; my being taken up by the portuguese master of the ship ; my being planted so well in the brazils ; my receiving the cargo from england , and the like - i never had once the words " thank god ! " so much as on my mind , or in my mouth ; nor in the greatest distress had i so much as a thought to pray to him , or so much as to say , " lord , have mercy upon me ! " no , nor to mention the name of god , unless it was to swear by , and blaspheme it .
i had terrible reflections upon my mind for many months , as i have already observed , on account of my wicked and hardened life past ; and when i looked about me , and considered what particular providences had attended me since my coming into this place , and how god had dealt bountifully with me - had not only punished me less than my iniquity had deserved , but had so plentifully provided for me - this gave me great hopes that my repentance was accepted , and that god had yet mercy in store for me .
with these reflections i worked my mind up , not only to a resignation to the will of god in the present disposition of my circumstances , but even to a sincere thankfulness for my condition ; and that i , who was yet a living man , ought not to complain , seeing i had not the due punishment of my sins ; that i enjoyed so many mercies which i had no reason to have expected in that place ; that i ought never more to repine at my condition , but to rejoice , and to give daily thanks for that daily bread , which nothing but a crowd of wonders could have brought ; that i ought to consider i had been fed even by a miracle , even as great as that of feeding elijah by ravens , nay , by a long series of miracles ; and that i could hardly have named a place in the uninhabitable part of the world where i could have been cast more to my advantage ; a place where , as i had no society , which was my affliction on one hand , so i found no ravenous beasts , no furious wolves or tigers , to threaten my life ; no venomous creatures , or poisons , which i might feed on to my hurt ; no savages to murder and devour me .
in a word , as my life was a life of sorrow one way , so it was a life of mercy another ; and i wanted nothing to make it a life of comfort but to be able to make my sense of god 's goodness to me , and care over me in this condition , be my daily consolation ; and after i did make a just improvement on these things , i went away , and was no more sad .
i had now been here so long that many things which i had brought on shore for my help were either quite gone , or very much wasted and near spent .
my ink , as i observed , had been gone some time , all but a very little , which i eked out with water , a little and a little , till it was so pale , it scarce left any appearance of black upon the paper .
as long as it lasted i made use of it to minute down the days of the month on which any remarkable thing happened to me ; and first , by casting up times past , i remembered that there was a strange concurrence of days in the various providences which befell me , and which , if i had been superstitiously inclined to observe days as fatal or fortunate , i might have had reason to have looked upon with a great deal of curiosity .
first , i had observed that the same day that i broke away from my father and friends and ran away to hull , in order to go to sea , the same day afterwards i was taken by the sallee man-of-war , and made a slave ; the same day of the year that i escaped out of the wreck of that ship in yarmouth roads , that same day-year afterwards i made my escape from sallee in a boat ; the same day of the year i was born on - viz. the 30th of september , that same day i had my life so miraculously saved twenty-six years after , when i was cast on shore in this island ; so that my wicked life and my solitary life began both on a day .
the next thing to my ink being wasted was that of my bread - i mean the biscuit which i brought out of the ship ; this i had husbanded to the last degree , allowing myself but one cake of bread a-day for above a year ; and yet i was quite without bread for near a year before i got any corn of my own , and great reason i had to be thankful that i had any at all , the getting it being , as has been already observed , next to miraculous .
my clothes , too , began to decay ; as to linen , i had had none a good while , except some chequered shirts which i found in the chests of the other seamen , and which i carefully preserved ; because many times i could bear no other clothes on but a shirt ; and it was a very great help to me that i had , among all the men 's clothes of the ship , almost three dozen of shirts .
there were also , indeed , several thick watch-coats of the seamen 's which were left , but they were too hot to wear ; and though it is true that the weather was so violently hot that there was no need of clothes , yet i could not go quite naked - no , though i had been inclined to it , which i was not - nor could i abide the thought of it , though i was alone .
the reason why i could not go naked was , i could not bear the heat of the sun so well when quite naked as with some clothes on ; nay , the very heat frequently blistered my skin : whereas , with a shirt on , the air itself made some motion , and whistling under the shirt , was twofold cooler than without it .
no more could i ever bring myself to go out in the heat of the sun without a cap or a hat ; the heat of the sun , beating with such violence as it does in that place , would give me the headache presently , by darting so directly on my head , without a cap or hat on , so that i could not bear it ; whereas , if i put on my hat it would presently go away .
upon these views i began to consider about putting the few rags i had , which i called clothes , into some order ; i had worn out all the waistcoats i had , and my business was now to try if i could not make jackets out of the great watch-coats which i had by me , and with such other materials as i had ; so i set to work , tailoring , or rather , indeed , botching , for i made most piteous work of it .
however , i made shift to make two or three new waistcoats , which i hoped would serve me a great while : as for breeches or drawers , i made but a very sorry shift indeed till afterwards .
i have mentioned that i saved the skins of all the creatures that i killed , i mean four-footed ones , and i had them hung up , stretched out with sticks in the sun , by which means some of them were so dry and hard that they were fit for little , but others were very useful .
the first thing i made of these was a great cap for my head , with the hair on the outside , to shoot off the rain ; and this i performed so well , that after i made me a suit of clothes wholly of these skins - that is to say , a waistcoat , and breeches open at the knees , and both loose , for they were rather wanting to keep me cool than to keep me warm .
i must not omit to acknowledge that they were wretchedly made ; for if i was a bad carpenter , i was a worse tailor .
however , they were such as i made very good shift with , and when i was out , if it happened to rain , the hair of my waistcoat and cap being outermost , i was kept very dry .
after this , i spent a great deal of time and pains to make an umbrella ; i was , indeed , in great want of one , and had a great mind to make one ; i had seen them made in the brazils , where they are very useful in the great heats there , and i felt the heats every jot as great here , and greater too , being nearer the equinox ; besides , as i was obliged to be much abroad , it was a most useful thing to me , as well for the rains as the heats .
i took a world of pains with it , and was a great while before i could make anything likely to hold : nay , after i had thought i had hit the way , i spoiled two or three before i made one to my mind : but at last i made one that answered indifferently well : the main difficulty i found was to make it let down .
i could make it spread , but if it did not let down too , and draw in , it was not portable for me any way but just over my head , which would not do .
however , at last , as i said , i made one to answer , and covered it with skins , the hair upwards , so that it cast off the rain like a pent-house , and kept off the sun so effectually , that i could walk out in the hottest of the weather with greater advantage than i could before in the coolest , and when i had no need of it could close it , and carry it under my arm .
thus i lived mighty comfortably , my mind being entirely composed by resigning myself to the will of god , and throwing myself wholly upon the disposal of his providence .
this made my life better than sociable , for when i began to regret the want of conversation i would ask myself , whether thus conversing mutually with my own thoughts , and ( as i hope i may say ) with even god himself , by ejaculations , was not better than the utmost enjoyment of human society in the world ?
i cannot say that after this , for five years , any extraordinary thing happened to me , but i lived on in the same course , in the same posture and place , as before ; the chief things i was employed in , besides my yearly labour of planting my barley and rice , and curing my raisins , of both which i always kept up just enough to have sufficient stock of one year 's provisions beforehand ; i say , besides this yearly labour , and my daily pursuit of going out with my gun , i had one labour , to make a canoe , which at last i finished : so that , by digging a canal to it of six feet wide and four feet deep , i brought it into the creek , almost half a mile .
as for the first , which was so vastly big , for i made it without considering beforehand , as i ought to have done , how i should be able to launch it , so , never being able to bring it into the water , or bring the water to it , i was obliged to let it lie where it was as a memorandum to teach me to be wiser the next time : indeed , the next time , though i could not get a tree proper for it , and was in a place where i could not get the water to it at any less distance than , as i have said , near half a mile , yet , as i saw it was practicable at last , i never gave it over ; and though i was near two years about it , yet i never grudged my labour , in hopes of having a boat to go off to sea at last .
however , though my little periagua was finished , yet the size of it was not at all answerable to the design which i had in view when i made the first ; i mean of venturing over to the _ terra firma _ , where it was above forty miles broad ; accordingly , the smallness of my boat assisted to put an end to that design , and now i thought no more of it .
as i had a boat , my next design was to make a cruise round the island ; for as i had been on the other side in one place , crossing , as i have already described it , over the land , so the discoveries i made in that little journey made me very eager to see other parts of the coast ; and now i had a boat , i thought of nothing but sailing round the island .
for this purpose , that i might do everything with discretion and consideration , i fitted up a little mast in my boat , and made a sail too out of some of the pieces of the ship 's sails which lay in store , and of which i had a great stock by me .
having fitted my mast and sail , and tried the boat , i found she would sail very well ; then i made little lockers or boxes at each end of my boat , to put provisions , necessaries , ammunition , & c . , into , to be kept dry , either from rain or the spray of the sea ; and a little , long , hollow place i cut in the inside of the boat , where i could lay my gun , making a flap to hang down over it to keep it dry .
i fixed my umbrella also in the step at the stern , like a mast , to stand over my head , and keep the heat of the sun off me , like an awning ; and thus i every now and then took a little voyage upon the sea , but never went far out , nor far from the little creek .
at last , being eager to view the circumference of my little kingdom , i resolved upon my cruise ; and accordingly i victualled my ship for the voyage , putting in two dozen of loaves ( cakes i should call them ) of barley-bread , an earthen pot full of parched rice ( a food i ate a good deal of ) , a little bottle of rum , half a goat , and powder and shot for killing more , and two large watch-coats , of those which , as i mentioned before , i had saved out of the seamen 's chests ; these i took , one to lie upon , and the other to cover me in the night .
it was the 6th of november , in the sixth year of my reign - or my captivity , which you please - that i set out on this voyage , and i found it much longer than i expected ; for though the island itself was not very large , yet when i came to the east side of it , i found a great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into the sea , some above water , some under it ; and beyond that a shoal of sand , lying dry half a league more , so that i was obliged to go a great way out to sea to double the point .
when i first discovered them , i was going to give over my enterprise , and come back again , not knowing how far it might oblige me to go out to sea ; and above all , doubting how i should get back again : so i came to an anchor ; for i had made a kind of an anchor with a piece of a broken grappling which i got out of the ship .
having secured my boat , i took my gun and went on shore , climbing up a hill , which seemed to overlook that point where i saw the full extent of it , and resolved to venture .
in my viewing the sea from that hill where i stood , i perceived a strong , and indeed a most furious current , which ran to the east , and even came close to the point ; and i took the more notice of it because i saw there might be some danger that when i came into it i might be carried out to sea by the strength of it , and not be able to make the island again ; and indeed , had i not got first upon this hill , i believe it would have been so ; for there was the same current on the other side the island , only that it set off at a further distance , and i saw there was a strong eddy under the shore ; so i had nothing to do but to get out of the first current , and i should presently be in an eddy .
i lay here , however , two days , because the wind blowing pretty fresh at ese . , and that being just contrary to the current , made a great breach of the sea upon the point : so that it was not safe for me to keep too close to the shore for the breach , nor to go too far off , because of the stream .
the third day , in the morning , the wind having abated overnight , the sea was calm , and i ventured : but i am a warning to all rash and ignorant pilots ; for no sooner was i come to the point , when i was not even my boat 's length from the shore , but i found myself in a great depth of water , and a current like the sluice of a mill ; it carried my boat along with it with such violence that all i could do could not keep her so much as on the edge of it ; but i found it hurried me farther and farther out from the eddy , which was on my left hand .
there was no wind stirring to help me , and all i could do with my paddles signified nothing : and now i began to give myself over for lost ; for as the current was on both sides of the island , i knew in a few leagues distance they must join again , and then i was irrecoverably gone ; nor did i see any possibility of avoiding it ; so that i had no prospect before me but of perishing , not by the sea , for that was calm enough , but of starving from hunger .
i had , indeed , found a tortoise on the shore , as big almost as i could lift , and had tossed it into the boat ; and i had a great jar of fresh water , that is to say , one of my earthen pots ; but what was all this to being driven into the vast ocean , where , to be sure , there was no shore , no mainland or island , for a thousand leagues at least ?
and now i saw how easy it was for the providence of god to make even the most miserable condition of mankind worse .
now i looked back upon my desolate , solitary island as the most pleasant place in the world and all the happiness my heart could wish for was to be but there again .
i stretched out my hands to it , with eager wishes - " o happy desert ! " said i , " i shall never see thee more .
o miserable creature ! whither am going ? "
then i reproached myself with my unthankful temper , and that i had repined at my solitary condition ; and now what would i give to be on shore there again !
thus , we never see the true state of our condition till it is illustrated to us by its contraries , nor know how to value what we enjoy , but by the want of it .
it is scarcely possible to imagine the consternation i was now in , being driven from my beloved island ( for so it appeared to me now to be ) into the wide ocean , almost two leagues , and in the utmost despair of ever recovering it again .
however , i worked hard till , indeed , my strength was almost exhausted , and kept my boat as much to the northward , that is , towards the side of the current which the eddy lay on , as possibly i could ; when about noon , as the sun passed the meridian , i thought i felt a little breeze of wind in my face , springing up from sse .
this cheered my heart a little , and especially when , in about half-an-hour more , it blew a pretty gentle gale .
by this time i had got at a frightful distance from the island , and had the least cloudy or hazy weather intervened , i had been undone another way , too ; for i had no compass on board , and should never have known how to have steered towards the island , if i had but once lost sight of it ; but the weather continuing clear , i applied myself to get up my mast again , and spread my sail , standing away to the north as much as possible , to get out of the current .
just as i had set my mast and sail , and the boat began to stretch away , i saw even by the clearness of the water some alteration of the current was near ; for where the current was so strong the water was foul ; but perceiving the water clear , i found the current abate ; and presently i found to the east , at about half a mile , a breach of the sea upon some rocks : these rocks i found caused the current to part again , and as the main stress of it ran away more southerly , leaving the rocks to the north-east , so the other returned by the repulse of the rocks , and made a strong eddy , which ran back again to the north-west , with a very sharp stream .
they who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to them upon the ladder , or to be rescued from thieves just going to murder them , or who have been in such extremities , may guess what my present surprise of joy was , and how gladly i put my boat into the stream of this eddy ; and the wind also freshening , how gladly i spread my sail to it , running cheerfully before the wind , and with a strong tide or eddy underfoot .
this eddy carried me about a league on my way back again , directly towards the island , but about two leagues more to the northward than the current which carried me away at first ; so that when i came near the island , i found myself open to the northern shore of it , that is to say , the other end of the island , opposite to that which i went out from .
when i had made something more than a league of way by the help of this current or eddy , i found it was spent , and served me no further .
however , i found that being between two great currents - viz. that on the south side , which had hurried me away , and that on the north , which lay about a league on the other side ; i say , between these two , in the wake of the island , i found the water at least still , and running no way ; and having still a breeze of wind fair for me , i kept on steering directly for the island , though not making such fresh way as i did before .
about four o 'clock in the evening , being then within a league of the island , i found the point of the rocks which occasioned this disaster stretching out , as is described before , to the southward , and casting off the current more southerly , had , of course , made another eddy to the north ; and this i found very strong , but not directly setting the way my course lay , which was due west , but almost full north .
however , having a fresh gale , i stretched across this eddy , slanting north-west ; and in about an hour came within about a mile of the shore , where , it being smooth water , i soon got to land .
when i was on shore , god i fell on my knees and gave god thanks for my deliverance , resolving to lay aside all thoughts of my deliverance by my boat ; and refreshing myself with such things as i had , i brought my boat close to the shore , in a little cove that i had spied under some trees , and laid me down to sleep , being quite spent with the labour and fatigue of the voyage .
i was now at a great loss which way to get home with my boat !
i had run so much hazard , and knew too much of the case , to think of attempting it by the way i went out ; and what might be at the other side ( i mean the west side ) i knew not , nor had i any mind to run any more ventures ; so i resolved on the next morning to make my way westward along the shore , and to see if there was no creek where i might lay up my frigate in safety , so as to have her again if i wanted her .
in about three miles or thereabouts , coasting the shore , i came to a very good inlet or bay , about a mile over , which narrowed till it came to a very little rivulet or brook , where i found a very convenient harbour for my boat , and where she lay as if she had been in a little dock made on purpose for her .
here i put in , and having stowed my boat very safe , i went on shore to look about me , and see where i was .
i soon found i had but a little passed by the place where i had been before , when i travelled on foot to that shore ; so taking nothing out of my boat but my gun and umbrella , for it was exceedingly hot , i began my march .
the way was comfortable enough after such a voyage as i had been upon , and i reached my old bower in the evening , where i found everything standing as i left it ; for i always kept it in good order , being , as i said before , my country house .
i got over the fence , and laid me down in the shade to rest my limbs , for i was very weary , and fell asleep ; but judge you , if you can , that read my story , what a surprise i must be in when i was awaked out of my sleep by a voice calling me by my name several times , " robin , robin , robin crusoe : poor robin crusoe !
where are you , robin crusoe ?
where are you ?
where have you been ? "
i was so dead asleep at first , being fatigued with rowing , or part of the day , and with walking the latter part , that i did not wake thoroughly ; but dozing thought i dreamed that somebody spoke to me ; but as the voice continued to repeat , " robin crusoe , robin crusoe , " at last i began to wake more perfectly , and was at first dreadfully frightened , and started up in the utmost consternation ; but no sooner were my eyes open , but i saw my poll sitting on the top of the hedge ; and immediately knew that it was he that spoke to me ; for just in such bemoaning language i had used to talk to him and teach him ; and he had learned it so perfectly that he would sit upon my finger , and lay his bill close to my face and cry , " poor robin crusoe !
where are you ?
where have you been ?
how came you here ? " and such things as i had taught him .
however , even though i knew it was the parrot , and that indeed it could be nobody else , it was a good while before i could compose myself .
first , i was amazed how the creature got thither ; and then , how he should just keep about the place , and nowhere else ; but as i was well satisfied it could be nobody but honest poll , i got over it ; and holding out my hand , and calling him by his name , " poll , " the sociable creature came to me , and sat upon my thumb , as he used to do , and continued talking to me , " poor robin crusoe ! and how did i come here ? and where had i been ? " just as if he had been overjoyed to see me again ; and so i carried him home along with me .
i had now had enough of rambling to sea for some time , and had enough to do for many days to sit still and reflect upon the danger i had been in .
i would have been very glad to have had my boat again on my side of the island ; but i knew not how it was practicable to get it about .
as to the east side of the island , which i had gone round , i knew well enough there was no venturing that way ; my very heart would shrink , and my very blood run chill , but to think of it ; and as to the other side of the island , i did not know how it might be there ; but supposing the current ran with the same force against the shore at the east as it passed by it on the other , i might run the same risk of being driven down the stream , and carried by the island , as i had been before of being carried away from it : so with these thoughts , i contented myself to be without any boat , though it had been the product of so many months ' labour to make it , and of so many more to get it into the sea .
in this government of my temper i remained near a year ; and lived a very sedate , retired life , as you may well suppose ; and my thoughts being very much composed as to my condition , and fully comforted in resigning myself to the dispositions of providence , i thought i lived really very happily in all things except that of society .
i improved myself in this time in all the mechanic exercises which my necessities put me upon applying myself to ; and i believe i should , upon occasion , have made a very good carpenter , especially considering how few tools i had .
besides this , i arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthenware , and contrived well enough to make them with a wheel , which i found infinitely easier and better ; because i made things round and shaped , which before were filthy things indeed to look on .
but i think i was never more vain of my own performance , or more joyful for anything i found out , than for my being able to make a tobacco-pipe ; and though it was a very ugly , clumsy thing when it was done , and only burned red , like other earthenware , yet as it was hard and firm , and would draw the smoke , i was exceedingly comforted with it , for i had been always used to smoke ; and there were pipes in the ship , but i forgot them at first , not thinking there was tobacco in the island ; and afterwards , when i searched the ship again , i could not come at any pipes .
in my wicker-ware also i improved much , and made abundance of necessary baskets , as well as my invention showed me ; though not very handsome , yet they were such as were very handy and convenient for laying things up in , or fetching things home .
for example , if i killed a goat abroad , i could hang it up in a tree , flay it , dress it , and cut it in pieces , and bring it home in a basket ; and the like by a turtle ; i could cut it up , take out the eggs and a piece or two of the flesh , which was enough for me , and bring them home in a basket , and leave the rest behind me .
also , large deep baskets were the receivers of my corn , which i always rubbed out as soon as it was dry and cured , and kept it in great baskets .
i began now to perceive my powder abated considerably ; this was a want which it was impossible for me to supply , and i began seriously to consider what i must do when i should have no more powder ; that is to say , how i should kill any goats .
i had , as is observed in the third year of my being here , kept a young kid , and bred her up tame , and i was in hopes of getting a he-goat ; but i could not by any means bring it to pass , till my kid grew an old goat ; and as i could never find in my heart to kill her , she died at last of mere age .
but being now in the eleventh year of my residence , and , as i have said , my ammunition growing low , i set myself to study some art to trap and snare the goats , to see whether i could not catch some of them alive ; and particularly i wanted a she-goat great with young .
for this purpose i made snares to hamper them ; and i do believe they were more than once taken in them ; but my tackle was not good , for i had no wire , and i always found them broken and my bait devoured .
at length i resolved to try a pitfall ; so i dug several large pits in the earth , in places where i had observed the goats used to feed , and over those pits i placed hurdles of my own making too , with a great weight upon them ; and several times i put ears of barley and dry rice without setting the trap ; and i could easily perceive that the goats had gone in and eaten up the corn , for i could see the marks of their feet .
at length i set three traps in one night , and going the next morning i found them , all standing , and yet the bait eaten and gone ; this was very discouraging .
however , i altered my traps ; and not to trouble you with particulars , going one morning to see my traps , i found in one of them a large old he-goat ; and in one of the others three kids , a male and two females .
as to the old one , i knew not what to do with him ; he was so fierce i durst not go into the pit to him ; that is to say , to bring him away alive , which was what i wanted .
i could have killed him , but that was not my business , nor would it answer my end ; so i even let him out , and he ran away as if he had been frightened out of his wits .
but i did not then know what i afterwards learned , that hunger will tame a lion .
if i had let him stay three or four days without food , and then have carried him some water to drink and then a little corn , he would have been as tame as one of the kids ; for they are mighty sagacious , tractable creatures , where they are well used .
however , for the present i let him go , knowing no better at that time : then i went to the three kids , and taking them one by one , i tied them with strings together , and with some difficulty brought them all home .
it was a good while before they would feed ; but throwing them some sweet corn , it tempted them , and they began to be tame .
and now i found that if i expected to supply myself with goats ' flesh , when i had no powder or shot left , breeding some up tame was my only way , when , perhaps , i might have them about my house like a flock of sheep .
but then it occurred to me that i must keep the tame from the wild , or else they would always run wild when they grew up ; and the only way for this was to have some enclosed piece of ground , well fenced either with hedge or pale , to keep them in so effectually , that those within might not break out , or those without break in .
this was a great undertaking for one pair of hands yet , as i saw there was an absolute necessity for doing it , my first work was to find out a proper piece of ground , where there was likely to be herbage for them to eat , water for them to drink , and cover to keep them from the sun .
those who understand such enclosures will think i had very little contrivance when i pitched upon a place very proper for all these ( being a plain , open piece of meadow land , or savannah , as our people call it in the western colonies ) , which had two or three little drills of fresh water in it , and at one end was very woody - i say , they will smile at my forecast , when i shall tell them i began by enclosing this piece of ground in such a manner that , my hedge or pale must have been at least two miles about .
nor was the madness of it so great as to the compass , for if it was ten miles about , i was like to have time enough to do it in ; but i did not consider that my goats would be as wild in so much compass as if they had had the whole island , and i should have so much room to chase them in that i should never catch them .
my hedge was begun and carried on , i believe , about fifty yards when this thought occurred to me ; so i presently stopped short , and , for the beginning , i resolved to enclose a piece of about one hundred and fifty yards in length , and one hundred yards in breadth , which , as it would maintain as many as i should have in any reasonable time , so , as my stock increased , i could add more ground to my enclosure .
this was acting with some prudence , and i went to work with courage .
i was about three months hedging in the first piece ; and , till i had done it , i tethered the three kids in the best part of it , and used them to feed as near me as possible , to make them familiar ; and very often i would go and carry them some ears of barley , or a handful of rice , and feed them out of my hand ; so that after my enclosure was finished and i let them loose , they would follow me up and down , bleating after me for a handful of corn .
this answered my end , and in about a year and a half i had a flock of about twelve goats , kids and all ; and in two years more i had three-and-forty , besides several that i took and killed for my food .
after that , i enclosed five several pieces of ground to feed them in , with little pens to drive them to take them as i wanted , and gates out of one piece of ground into another .
but this was not all ; for now i not only had goat 's flesh to feed on when i pleased , but milk too - a thing which , indeed , in the beginning , i did not so much as think of , and which , when it came into my thoughts , was really an agreeable surprise , for now i set up my dairy , and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a day .
and as nature , who gives supplies of food to every creature , dictates even naturally how to make use of it , so i , that had never milked a cow , much less a goat , or seen butter or cheese made only when i was a boy , after a great many essays and miscarriages , made both butter and cheese at last , also salt ( though i found it partly made to my hand by the heat of the sun upon some of the rocks of the sea ) , and never wanted it afterwards .
how mercifully can our creator treat his creatures , even in those conditions in which they seemed to be overwhelmed in destruction !
how can he sweeten the bitterest providences , and give us cause to praise him for dungeons and prisons !
what a table was here spread for me in the wilderness , where i saw nothing at first but to perish for hunger !
it would have made a stoic smile to have seen me and my little family sit down to dinner .
there was my majesty the prince and lord of the whole island ; i had the lives of all my subjects at my absolute command ; i could hang , draw , give liberty , and take it away , and no rebels among all my subjects .
then , to see how like a king i dined , too , all alone , attended by my servants !
poll , as if he had been my favourite , was the only person permitted to talk to me . my dog , who was now grown old and crazy , and had found no species to multiply his kind upon , sat always at my right hand ; and two cats , one on one side of the table and one on the other , expecting now and then a bit from my hand , as a mark of especial favour .
but these were not the two cats which i brought on shore at first , for they were both of them dead , and had been interred near my habitation by my own hand ; but one of them having multiplied by i know not what kind of creature , these were two which i had preserved tame ; whereas the rest ran wild in the woods , and became indeed troublesome to me at last , for they would often come into my house , and plunder me too , till at last i was obliged to shoot them , and did kill a great many ; at length they left me .
with this attendance and in this plentiful manner i lived ; neither could i be said to want anything but society ; and of that , some time after this , i was likely to have too much .
i was something impatient , as i have observed , to have the use of my boat , though very loath to run any more hazards ; and therefore sometimes i sat contriving ways to get her about the island , and at other times i sat myself down contented enough without her . but i had a strange uneasiness in my mind to go down to the point of the island where , as i have said in my last ramble , i went up the hill to see how the shore lay , and how the current set , that i might see what i had to do : this inclination increased upon me every day , and at length i resolved to travel thither by land , following the edge of the shore .
i did so ; but had any one in england met such a man as i was , it must either have frightened him , or raised a great deal of laughter ; and as i frequently stood still to look at myself , i could not but smile at the notion of my travelling through yorkshire with such an equipage , and in such a dress .
be pleased to take a sketch of my figure , as follows .
i had a great high shapeless cap , made of a goat 's skin , with a flap hanging down behind , as well to keep the sun from me as to shoot the rain off from running into my neck , nothing being so hurtful in these climates as the rain upon the flesh under the clothes .
i had a short jacket of goat 's skin , the skirts coming down to about the middle of the thighs , and a pair of open-kneed breeches of the same ; the breeches were made of the skin of an old he-goat , whose hair hung down such a length on either side that , like pantaloons , it reached to the middle of my legs ; stockings and shoes i had none , but had made me a pair of somethings , i scarce knew what to call them , like buskins , to flap over my legs , and lace on either side like spatterdashes , but of a most barbarous shape , as indeed were all the rest of my clothes .
i had on a broad belt of goat 's skin dried , which i drew together with two thongs of the same instead of buckles , and in a kind of a frog on either side of this , instead of a sword and dagger , hung a little saw and a hatchet , one on one side and one on the other .
i had another belt not so broad , and fastened in the same manner , which hung over my shoulder , and at the end of it , under my left arm , hung two pouches , both made of goat 's skin too , in one of which hung my powder , in the other my shot .
at my back i carried my basket , and on my shoulder my gun , and over my head a great clumsy , ugly , goat 's-skin umbrella , but which , after all , was the most necessary thing i had about me next to my gun .
as for my face , the colour of it was really not so mulatto-like as one might expect from a man not at all careful of it , and living within nine or ten degrees of the equinox .
my beard i had once suffered to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long ; but as i had both scissors and razors sufficient , i had cut it pretty short , except what grew on my upper lip , which i had trimmed into a large pair of mahometan whiskers , such as i had seen worn by some turks at sallee , for the moors did not wear such , though the turks did ; of these moustachios , or whiskers , i will not say they were long enough to hang my hat upon them , but they were of a length and shape monstrous enough , and such as in england would have passed for frightful .
but all this is by-the-bye ; for as to my figure , i had so few to observe me that it was of no manner of consequence , so i say no more of that .
in this kind of dress i went my new journey , and was out five or six days .
i travelled first along the sea-shore , directly to the place where i first brought my boat to an anchor to get upon the rocks ; and having no boat now to take care of , i went over the land a nearer way to the same height that i was upon before , when , looking forward to the points of the rocks which lay out , and which i was obliged to double with my boat , as is said above , i was surprised to see the sea all smooth and quiet - no rippling , no motion , no current , any more there than in other places .
i was at a strange loss to understand this , and resolved to spend some time in the observing it , to see if nothing from the sets of the tide had occasioned it ; but i was presently convinced how it was - viz. that the tide of ebb setting from the west , and joining with the current of waters from some great river on the shore , must be the occasion of this current , and that , according as the wind blew more forcibly from the west or from the north , this current came nearer or went farther from the shore ; for , waiting thereabouts till evening , i went up to the rock again , and then the tide of ebb being made , i plainly saw the current again as before , only that it ran farther off , being near half a league from the shore , whereas in my case it set close upon the shore , and hurried me and my canoe along with it , which at another time it would not have done .
this observation convinced me that i had nothing to do but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the tide , and i might very easily bring my boat about the island again ; but when i began to think of putting it in practice , i had such terror upon my spirits at the remembrance of the danger i had been in , that i could not think of it again with any patience , but , on the contrary , i took up another resolution , which was more safe , though more laborious - and this was , that i would build , or rather make , me another periagua or canoe , and so have one for one side of the island , and one for the other .
you are to understand that now i had , as i may call it , two plantations in the island - one my little fortification or tent , with the wall about it , under the rock , with the cave behind me , which by this time i had enlarged into several apartments or caves , one within another .
one of these , which was the driest and largest , and had a door out beyond my wall or fortification - that is to say , beyond where my wall joined to the rock - was all filled up with the large earthen pots of which i have given an account , and with fourteen or fifteen great baskets , which would hold five or six bushels each , where i laid up my stores of provisions , especially my corn , some in the ear , cut off short from the straw , and the other rubbed out with my hand .
as for my wall , made , as before , with long stakes or piles , those piles grew all like trees , and were by this time grown so big , and spread so very much , that there was not the least appearance , to any one 's view , of any habitation behind them .
near this dwelling of mine , but a little farther within the land , and upon lower ground , lay my two pieces of corn land , which i kept duly cultivated and sowed , and which duly yielded me their harvest in its season ; and whenever i had occasion for more corn , i had more land adjoining as fit as that .
besides this , i had my country seat , and i had now a tolerable plantation there also ; for , first , i had my little bower , as i called it , which i kept in repair - that is to say , i kept the hedge which encircled it in constantly fitted up to its usual height , the ladder standing always in the inside .
i kept the trees , which at first were no more than stakes , but were now grown very firm and tall , always cut , so that they might spread and grow thick and wild , and make the more agreeable shade , which they did effectually to my mind .
in the middle of this i had my tent always standing , being a piece of a sail spread over poles , set up for that purpose , and which never wanted any repair or renewing ; and under this i had made me a squab or couch with the skins of the creatures i had killed , and with other soft things , and a blanket laid on them , such as belonged to our sea-bedding , which i had saved ; and a great watch-coat to cover me .
and here , whenever i had occasion to be absent from my chief seat , i took up my country habitation .
adjoining to this i had my enclosures for my cattle , that is to say my goats , and i had taken an inconceivable deal of pains to fence and enclose this ground .
i was so anxious to see it kept entire , lest the goats should break through , that i never left off till , with infinite labour , i had stuck the outside of the hedge so full of small stakes , and so near to one another , that it was rather a pale than a hedge , and there was scarce room to put a hand through between them ; which afterwards , when those stakes grew , as they all did in the next rainy season , made the enclosure strong like a wall , indeed stronger than any wall .
this will testify for me that i was not idle , and that i spared no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared necessary for my comfortable support , for i considered the keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus at my hand would be a living magazine of flesh , milk , butter , and cheese for me as long as i lived in the place , if it were to be forty years ; and that keeping them in my reach depended entirely upon my perfecting my enclosures to such a degree that i might be sure of keeping them together ; which by this method , indeed , i so effectually secured , that when these little stakes began to grow , i had planted them so very thick that i was forced to pull some of them up again .
in this place also i had my grapes growing , which i principally depended on for my winter store of raisins , and which i never failed to preserve very carefully , as the best and most agreeable dainty of my whole diet ; and indeed they were not only agreeable , but medicinal , wholesome , nourishing , and refreshing to the last degree .
as this was also about half-way between my other habitation and the place where i had laid up my boat , i generally stayed and lay here in my way thither , for i used frequently to visit my boat ; and i kept all things about or belonging to her in very good order .
sometimes i went out in her to divert myself , but no more hazardous voyages would i go , scarcely ever above a stone 's cast or two from the shore , i was so apprehensive of being hurried out of my knowledge again by the currents or winds , or any other accident . but now i come to a new scene of my life .
it happened one day , about noon , going towards my boat , i was exceedingly surprised with the print of a man 's naked foot on the shore , which was very plain to be seen on the sand .
i stood like one thunderstruck , or as if i had seen an apparition .
i listened , i looked round me , but i could hear nothing , nor see anything ; i went up to a rising ground to look farther ; i went up the shore and down the shore , but it was all one ; i could see no other impression but that one .
i went to it again to see if there were any more , and to observe if it might not be my fancy ; but there was no room for that , for there was exactly the print of a foot - toes , heel , and every part of a foot .
how it came thither i knew not , nor could i in the least imagine ; but after innumerable fluttering thoughts , like a man perfectly confused and out of myself , i came home to my fortification , not feeling , as we say , the ground i went on , but terrified to the last degree , looking behind me at every two or three steps , mistaking every bush and tree , and fancying every stump at a distance to be a man .
nor is it possible to describe how many various shapes my affrighted imagination represented things to me in , how many wild ideas were found every moment in my fancy , and what strange , unaccountable whimsies came into my thoughts by the way .
when i came to my castle ( for so i think i called it ever after this ) , i fled into it like one pursued .
whether i went over by the ladder , as first contrived , or went in at the hole in the rock , which i had called a door , i cannot remember ; no , nor could i remember the next morning , for never frightened hare fled to cover , or fox to earth , with more terror of mind than i to this retreat .
i slept none that night ; the farther i was from the occasion of my fright , the greater my apprehensions were , which is something contrary to the nature of such things , and especially to the usual practice of all creatures in fear ; but i was so embarrassed with my own frightful ideas of the thing , that i formed nothing but dismal imaginations to myself , even though i was now a great way off .
sometimes i fancied it must be the devil , and reason joined in with me in this supposition , for how should any other thing in human shape come into the place ?
where was the vessel that brought them ?
what marks were there of any other footstep ? and how was it possible a man should come there ?
but then , to think that satan should take human shape upon him in such a place , where there could be no manner of occasion for it , but to leave the print of his foot behind him , and that even for no purpose too , for he could not be sure i should see it - this was an amusement the other way .
i considered that the devil might have found out abundance of other ways to have terrified me than this of the single print of a foot ; that as i lived quite on the other side of the island , he would never have been so simple as to leave a mark in a place where it was ten thousand to one whether i should ever see it or not , and in the sand too , which the first surge of the sea , upon a high wind , would have defaced entirely .
all this seemed inconsistent with the thing itself and with all the notions we usually entertain of the subtlety of the devil .
abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me out of all apprehensions of its being the devil ; and i presently concluded then that it must be some more dangerous creature - viz. that it must be some of the savages of the mainland opposite who had wandered out to sea in their canoes , and either driven by the currents or by contrary winds , had made the island , and had been on shore , but were gone away again to sea ; being as loath , perhaps , to have stayed in this desolate island as i would have been to have had them .
while these reflections were rolling in my mind , i was very thankful in my thoughts that i was so happy as not to be thereabouts at that time , or that they did not see my boat , by which they would have concluded that some inhabitants had been in the place , and perhaps have searched farther for me . then terrible thoughts racked my imagination about their having found out my boat , and that there were people here ; and that , if so , i should certainly have them come again in greater numbers and devour me ; that if it should happen that they should not find me , yet they would find my enclosure , destroy all my corn , and carry away all my flock of tame goats , and i should perish at last for mere want .
thus my fear banished all my religious hope , all that former confidence in god , which was founded upon such wonderful experience as i had had of his goodness ; as if he that had fed me by miracle hitherto could not preserve , by his power , the provision which he had made for me by his goodness .
i reproached myself with my laziness , that would not sow any more corn one year than would just serve me till the next season , as if no accident could intervene to prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon the ground ; and this i thought so just a reproof , that i resolved for the future to have two or three years ' corn beforehand ; so that , whatever might come , i might not perish for want of bread .
how strange a chequer-work of providence is the life of man ! and by what secret different springs are the affections hurried about , as different circumstances present !
to-day we love what to-morrow we hate ; to-day we seek what to-morrow we shun ; to-day we desire what to-morrow we fear , nay , even tremble at the apprehensions of .
this was exemplified in me , at this time , in the most lively manner imaginable ; for i , whose only affliction was that i seemed banished from human society , that i was alone , circumscribed by the boundless ocean , cut off from mankind , and condemned to what i call silent life ; that i was as one whom heaven thought not worthy to be numbered among the living , or to appear among the rest of his creatures ; that to have seen one of my own species would have seemed to me a raising me from death to life , and the greatest blessing that heaven itself , next to the supreme blessing of salvation , could bestow ; i say , that i should now tremble at the very apprehensions of seeing a man , and was ready to sink into the ground at but the shadow or silent appearance of a man having set his foot in the island .
such is the uneven state of human life ; and it afforded me a great many curious speculations afterwards , when i had a little recovered my first surprise . i considered that this was the station of life the infinitely wise and good providence of god had determined for me ; that as i could not foresee what the ends of divine wisdom might be in all this , so i was not to dispute his sovereignty ; who , as i was his creature , had an undoubted right , by creation , to govern and dispose of me absolutely as he thought fit ; and who , as i was a creature that had offended him , had likewise a judicial right to condemn me to what punishment he thought fit ; and that it was my part to submit to bear his indignation , because i had sinned against him .
i then reflected , that as god , who was not only righteous but omnipotent , had thought fit thus to punish and afflict me , so he was able to deliver me : that if he did not think fit to do so , it was my unquestioned duty to resign myself absolutely and entirely to his will ; and , on the other hand , it was my duty also to hope in him , pray to him , and quietly to attend to the dictates and directions of his daily providence .
these thoughts took me up many hours , days , nay , i may say weeks and months : and one particular effect of my cogitations on this occasion i cannot omit . one morning early , lying in my bed , and filled with thoughts about my danger from the appearances of savages , i found it discomposed me very much ; upon which these words of the scripture came into my thoughts , " call upon me in the day of trouble , and i will deliver thee , and thou shalt glorify me . "
upon this , rising cheerfully out of my bed , my heart was not only comforted , but i was guided and encouraged to pray earnestly to god for deliverance : when i had done praying i took up my bible , and opening it to read , the first words that presented to me were , " wait on the lord , and be of good cheer , and he shall strengthen thy heart ; wait , i say , on the lord . " it is impossible to express the comfort this gave me .
in answer , i thankfully laid down the book , and was no more sad , at least on that occasion .
in the middle of these cogitations , apprehensions , and reflections , it came into my thoughts one day that all this might be a mere chimera of my own , and that this foot might be the print of my own foot , when i came on shore from my boat : this cheered me up a little , too , and i began to persuade myself it was all a delusion ; that it was nothing else but my own foot ; and why might i not come that way from the boat , as well as i was going that way to the boat ?
again , i considered also that i could by no means tell for certain where i had trod , and where i had not ; and that if , at last , this was only the print of my own foot , i had played the part of those fools who try to make stories of spectres and apparitions , and then are frightened at them more than anybody .
now i began to take courage , and to peep abroad again , for i had not stirred out of my castle for three days and nights , so that i began to starve for provisions ; for i had little or nothing within doors but some barley-cakes and water ; then i knew that my goats wanted to be milked too , which usually was my evening diversion : and the poor creatures were in great pain and inconvenience for want of it ; and , indeed , it almost spoiled some of them , and almost dried up their milk .
encouraging myself , therefore , with the belief that this was nothing but the print of one of my own feet , and that i might be truly said to start at my own shadow , i began to go abroad again , and went to my country house to milk my flock : but to see with what fear i went forward , how often i looked behind me , how i was ready every now and then to lay down my basket and run for my life , it would have made any one have thought i was haunted with an evil conscience , or that i had been lately most terribly frightened ; and so , indeed , i had .
however , i went down thus two or three days , and having seen nothing , i began to be a little bolder , and to think there was really nothing in it but my own imagination ; but i could not persuade myself fully of this till i should go down to the shore again , and see this print of a foot , and measure it by my own , and see if there was any similitude or fitness , that i might be assured it was my own foot : but when i came to the place , first , it appeared evidently to me , that when i laid up my boat i could not possibly be on shore anywhere thereabouts ; secondly , when i came to measure the mark with my own foot , i found my foot not so large by a great deal .
both these things filled my head with new imaginations , and gave me the vapours again to the highest degree , so that i shook with cold like one in an ague ; and i went home again , filled with the belief that some man or men had been on shore there ; or , in short , that the island was inhabited , and i might be surprised before i was aware ; and what course to take for my security i knew not .
oh , what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed with fear !
it deprives them of the use of those means which reason offers for their relief .
the first thing i proposed to myself was , to throw down my enclosures , and turn all my tame cattle wild into the woods , lest the enemy should find them , and then frequent the island in prospect of the same or the like booty : then the simple thing of digging up my two corn-fields , lest they should find such a grain there , and still be prompted to frequent the island : then to demolish my bower and tent , that they might not see any vestiges of habitation , and be prompted to look farther , in order to find out the persons inhabiting .
these were the subject of the first night 's cogitations after i was come home again , while the apprehensions which had so overrun my mind were fresh upon me , and my head was full of vapours .
thus , fear of danger is ten thousand times more terrifying than danger itself , when apparent to the eyes ; and we find the burden of anxiety greater , by much , than the evil which we are anxious about : and what was worse than all this , i had not that relief in this trouble that from the resignation i used to practise i hoped to have .
i looked , i thought , like saul , who complained not only that the philistines were upon him , but that god had forsaken him ; for i did not now take due ways to compose my mind , by crying to god in my distress , and resting upon his providence , as i had done before , for my defence and deliverance ; which , if i had done , i had at least been more cheerfully supported under this new surprise , and perhaps carried through it with more resolution .
this confusion of my thoughts kept me awake all night ; but in the morning i fell asleep ; and having , by the amusement of my mind , been as it were tired , and my spirits exhausted , i slept very soundly , and waked much better composed than i had ever been before .
and now i began to think sedately ; and , upon debate with myself , i concluded that this island ( which was so exceedingly pleasant , fruitful , and no farther from the mainland than as i had seen ) was not so entirely abandoned as i might imagine ; that although there were no stated inhabitants who lived on the spot , yet that there might sometimes come boats off from the shore , who , either with design , or perhaps never but when they were driven by cross winds , might come to this place ; that i had lived there fifteen years now and had not met with the least shadow or figure of any people yet ; and that , if at any time they should be driven here , it was probable they went away again as soon as ever they could , seeing they had never thought fit to fix here upon any occasion ; that the most i could suggest any danger from was from any casual accidental landing of straggling people from the main , who , as it was likely , if they were driven hither , were here against their wills , so they made no stay here , but went off again with all possible speed ; seldom staying one night on shore , lest they should not have the help of the tides and daylight back again ; and that , therefore , i had nothing to do but to consider of some safe retreat , in case i should see any savages land upon the spot .
now , i began sorely to repent that i had dug my cave so large as to bring a door through again , which door , as i said , came out beyond where my fortification joined to the rock : upon maturely considering this , therefore , i resolved to draw me a second fortification , in the manner of a semicircle , at a distance from my wall , just where i had planted a double row of trees about twelve years before , of which i made mention : these trees having been planted so thick before , they wanted but few piles to be driven between them , that they might be thicker and stronger , and my wall would be soon finished .
so that i had now a double wall ; and my outer wall was thickened with pieces of timber , old cables , and everything i could think of , to make it strong ; having in it seven little holes , about as big as i might put my arm out at .
in the inside of this i thickened my wall to about ten feet thick with continually bringing earth out of my cave , and laying it at the foot of the wall , and walking upon it ; and through the seven holes i contrived to plant the muskets , of which i took notice that i had got seven on shore out of the ship ; these i planted like my cannon , and fitted them into frames , that held them like a carriage , so that i could fire all the seven guns in two minutes ' time ; this wall i was many a weary month in finishing , and yet never thought myself safe till it was done .
when this was done i stuck all the ground without my wall , for a great length every way , as full with stakes or sticks of the osier-like wood , which i found so apt to grow , as they could well stand ; insomuch that i believe i might set in near twenty thousand of them , leaving a pretty large space between them and my wall , that i might have room to see an enemy , and they might have no shelter from the young trees , if they attempted to approach my outer wall .
thus in two years ' time i had a thick grove ; and in five or six years ' time i had a wood before my dwelling , growing so monstrously thick and strong that it was indeed perfectly impassable : and no men , of what kind soever , could ever imagine that there was anything beyond it , much less a habitation .
as for the way which i proposed to myself to go in and out ( for i left no avenue ) , it was by setting two ladders , one to a part of the rock which was low , and then broke in , and left room to place another ladder upon that ; so when the two ladders were taken down no man living could come down to me without doing himself mischief ; and if they had come down , they were still on the outside of my outer wall .
thus i took all the measures human prudence could suggest for my own preservation ; and it will be seen at length that they were not altogether without just reason ; though i foresaw nothing at that time more than my mere fear suggested to me .
while this was doing , i was not altogether careless of my other affairs ; for i had a great concern upon me for my little herd of goats : they were not only a ready supply to me on every occasion , and began to be sufficient for me , without the expense of powder and shot , but also without the fatigue of hunting after the wild ones ; and i was loath to lose the advantage of them , and to have them all to nurse up over again .
for this purpose , after long consideration , i could think of but two ways to preserve them : one was , to find another convenient place to dig a cave underground , and to drive them into it every night ; and the other was to enclose two or three little bits of land , remote from one another , and as much concealed as i could , where i might keep about half-a-dozen young goats in each place ; so that if any disaster happened to the flock in general , i might be able to raise them again with little trouble and time : and this though it would require a good deal of time and labour , i thought was the most rational design .
accordingly , i spent some time to find out the most retired parts of the island ; and i pitched upon one , which was as private , indeed , as my heart could wish : it was a little damp piece of ground in the middle of the hollow and thick woods , where , as is observed , i almost lost myself once before , endeavouring to come back that way from the eastern part of the island .
here i found a clear piece of land , near three acres , so surrounded with woods that it was almost an enclosure by nature ; at least , it did not want near so much labour to make it so as the other piece of ground i had worked so hard at .
i immediately went to work with this piece of ground ; and in less than a month 's time i had so fenced it round that my flock , or herd , call it which you please , which were not so wild now as at first they might be supposed to be , were well enough secured in it : so , without any further delay , i removed ten young she-goats and two he-goats to this piece , and when they were there i continued to perfect the fence till i had made it as secure as the other ; which , however , i did at more leisure , and it took me up more time by a great deal .
all this labour i was at the expense of , purely from my apprehensions on account of the print of a man 's foot ; for as yet i had never seen any human creature come near the island ; and i had now lived two years under this uneasiness , which , indeed , made my life much less comfortable than it was before , as may be well imagined by any who know what it is to live in the constant snare of the fear of man .
and this i must observe , with grief , too , that the discomposure of my mind had great impression also upon the religious part of my thoughts ; for the dread and terror of falling into the hands of savages and cannibals lay so upon my spirits , that i seldom found myself in a due temper for application to my maker ; at least , not with the sedate calmness and resignation of soul which i was wont to do : i rather prayed to god as under great affliction and pressure of mind , surrounded with danger , and in expectation every night of being murdered and devoured before morning ; and i must testify , from my experience , that a temper of peace , thankfulness , love , and affection , is much the more proper frame for prayer than that of terror and discomposure : and that under the dread of mischief impending , a man is no more fit for a comforting performance of the duty of praying to god than he is for a repentance on a sick-bed ; for these discomposures affect the mind , as the others do the body ; and the discomposure of the mind must necessarily be as great a disability as that of the body , and much greater ; praying to god being properly an act of the mind , not of the body .
but to go on . after i had thus secured one part of my little living stock , i went about the whole island , searching for another private place to make such another deposit ; when , wandering more to the west point of the island than i had ever done yet , and looking out to sea , i thought i saw a boat upon the sea , at a great distance .
i had found a perspective glass or two in one of the seamen 's chests , which i saved out of our ship , but i had it not about me ; and this was so remote that i could not tell what to make of it , though i looked at it till my eyes were not able to hold to look any longer ; whether it was a boat or not i do not know , but as i descended from the hill i could see no more of it , so i gave it over ; only i resolved to go no more out without a perspective glass in my pocket .
when i was come down the hill to the end of the island , where , indeed , i had never been before , i was presently convinced that the seeing the print of a man 's foot was not such a strange thing in the island as i imagined : and but that it was a special providence that i was cast upon the side of the island where the savages never came , i should easily have known that nothing was more frequent than for the canoes from the main , when they happened to be a little too far out at sea , to shoot over to that side of the island for harbour : likewise , as they often met and fought in their canoes , the victors , having taken any prisoners , would bring them over to this shore , where , according to their dreadful customs , being all cannibals , they would kill and eat them ; of which hereafter .
when i was come down the hill to the shore , as i said above , being the sw. point of the island , i was perfectly confounded and amazed ; nor is it possible for me to express the horror of my mind at seeing the shore spread with skulls , hands , feet , and other bones of human bodies ; and particularly i observed a place where there had been a fire made , and a circle dug in the earth , like a cockpit , where i supposed the savage wretches had sat down to their human feastings upon the bodies of their fellow-creatures .
i was so astonished with the sight of these things , that i entertained no notions of any danger to myself from it for a long while : all my apprehensions were buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman , hellish brutality , and the horror of the degeneracy of human nature , which , though i had heard of it often , yet i never had so near a view of before ; in short , i turned away my face from the horrid spectacle ; my stomach grew sick , and i was just at the point of fainting , when nature discharged the disorder from my stomach ; and having vomited with uncommon violence , i was a little relieved , but could not bear to stay in the place a moment ; so i got up the hill again with all the speed i could , and walked on towards my own habitation .
when i came a little out of that part of the island i stood still awhile , as amazed , and then , recovering myself , i looked up with the utmost affection of my soul , and , with a flood of tears in my eyes , gave god thanks , that had cast my first lot in a part of the world where i was distinguished from such dreadful creatures as these ; and that , though i had esteemed my present condition very miserable , had yet given me so many comforts in it that i had still more to give thanks for than to complain of : and this , above all , that i had , even in this miserable condition , been comforted with the knowledge of himself , and the hope of his blessing : which was a felicity more than sufficiently equivalent to all the misery which i had suffered , or could suffer .
in this frame of thankfulness i went home to my castle , and began to be much easier now , as to the safety of my circumstances , than ever i was before : for i observed that these wretches never came to this island in search of what they could get ; perhaps not seeking , not wanting , or not expecting anything here ; and having often , no doubt , been up the covered , woody part of it without finding anything to their purpose .
i knew i had been here now almost eighteen years , and never saw the least footsteps of human creature there before ; and i might be eighteen years more as entirely concealed as i was now , if i did not discover myself to them , which i had no manner of occasion to do ; it being my only business to keep myself entirely concealed where i was , unless i found a better sort of creatures than cannibals to make myself known to .
yet i entertained such an abhorrence of the savage wretches that i have been speaking of , and of the wretched , inhuman custom of their devouring and eating one another up , that i continued pensive and sad , and kept close within my own circle for almost two years after this : when i say my own circle , i mean by it my three plantations - viz. my castle , my country seat ( which i called my bower ) , and my enclosure in the woods : nor did i look after this for any other use than an enclosure for my goats ; for the aversion which nature gave me to these hellish wretches was such , that i was as fearful of seeing them as of seeing the devil himself .
i did not so much as go to look after my boat all this time , but began rather to think of making another ; for i could not think of ever making any more attempts to bring the other boat round the island to me , lest i should meet with some of these creatures at sea ; in which case , if i had happened to have fallen into their hands , i knew what would have been my lot .
time , however , and the satisfaction i had that i was in no danger of being discovered by these people , began to wear off my uneasiness about them ; and i began to live just in the same composed manner as before , only with this difference , that i used more caution , and kept my eyes more about me than i did before , lest i should happen to be seen by any of them ; and particularly , i was more cautious of firing my gun , lest any of them , being on the island , should happen to hear it .
it was , therefore , a very good providence to me that i had furnished myself with a tame breed of goats , and that i had no need to hunt any more about the woods , or shoot at them ; and if i did catch any of them after this , it was by traps and snares , as i had done before ; so that for two years after this i believe i never fired my gun once off , though i never went out without it ; and what was more , as i had saved three pistols out of the ship , i always carried them out with me , or at least two of them , sticking them in my goat-skin belt .
i also furbished up one of the great cutlasses that i had out of the ship , and made me a belt to hang it on also ; so that i was now a most formidable fellow to look at when i went abroad , if you add to the former description of myself the particular of two pistols , and a broadsword hanging at my side in a belt , but without a scabbard .
things going on thus , as i have said , for some time , i seemed , excepting these cautions , to be reduced to my former calm , sedate way of living .
all these things tended to show me more and more how far my condition was from being miserable , compared to some others ; nay , to many other particulars of life which it might have pleased god to have made my lot . it put me upon reflecting how little repining there would be among mankind at any condition of life if people would rather compare their condition with those that were worse , in order to be thankful , than be always comparing them with those which are better , to assist their murmurings and complainings .
as in my present condition there were not really many things which i wanted , so indeed i thought that the frights i had been in about these savage wretches , and the concern i had been in for my own preservation , had taken off the edge of my invention , for my own conveniences ; and i had dropped a good design , which i had once bent my thoughts upon , and that was to try if i could not make some of my barley into malt , and then try to brew myself some beer .
this was really a whimsical thought , and i reproved myself often for the simplicity of it : for i presently saw there would be the want of several things necessary to the making my beer that it would be impossible for me to supply ; as , first , casks to preserve it in , which was a thing that , as i have observed already , i could never compass : no , though i spent not only many days , but weeks , nay months , in attempting it , but to no purpose .
in the next place , i had no hops to make it keep , no yeast to make it work , no copper or kettle to make it boil ; and yet with all these things wanting , i verily believe , had not the frights and terrors i was in about the savages intervened , i had undertaken it , and perhaps brought it to pass too ; for i seldom gave anything over without accomplishing it , when once i had it in my head to began it .
but my invention now ran quite another way ; for night and day i could think of nothing but how i might destroy some of the monsters in their cruel , bloody entertainment , and if possible save the victim they should bring hither to destroy .
it would take up a larger volume than this whole work is intended to be to set down all the contrivances i hatched , or rather brooded upon , in my thoughts , for the destroying these creatures , or at least frightening them so as to prevent their coming hither any more : but all this was abortive ; nothing could be possible to take effect , unless i was to be there to do it myself : and what could one man do among them , when perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of them together with their darts , or their bows and arrows , with which they could shoot as true to a mark as i could with my gun ?
sometimes i thought if digging a hole under the place where they made their fire , and putting in five or six pounds of gunpowder , which , when they kindled their fire , would consequently take fire , and blow up all that was near it : but as , in the first place , i should be unwilling to waste so much powder upon them , my store being now within the quantity of one barrel , so neither could i be sure of its going off at any certain time , when it might surprise them ; and , at best , that it would do little more than just blow the fire about their ears and fright them , but not sufficient to make them forsake the place : so i laid it aside ; and then proposed that i would place myself in ambush in some convenient place , with my three guns all double-loaded , and in the middle of their bloody ceremony let fly at them , when i should be sure to kill or wound perhaps two or three at every shot ; and then falling in upon them with my three pistols and my sword , i made no doubt but that , if there were twenty , i should kill them all .
this fancy pleased my thoughts for some weeks , and i was so full of it that i often dreamed of it , and , sometimes , that i was just going to let fly at them in my sleep .
i went so far with it in my imagination that i employed myself several days to find out proper places to put myself in ambuscade , as i said , to watch for them , and i went frequently to the place itself , which was now grown more familiar to me ; but while my mind was thus filled with thoughts of revenge and a bloody putting twenty or thirty of them to the sword , as i may call it , the horror i had at the place , and at the signals of the barbarous wretches devouring one another , abetted my malice .
well , at length i found a place in the side of the hill where i was satisfied i might securely wait till i saw any of their boats coming ; and might then , even before they would be ready to come on shore , convey myself unseen into some thickets of trees , in one of which there was a hollow large enough to conceal me entirely ; and there i might sit and observe all their bloody doings , and take my full aim at their heads , when they were so close together as that it would be next to impossible that i should miss my shot , or that i could fail wounding three or four of them at the first shot .
in this place , then , i resolved to fulfil my design ; and accordingly i prepared two muskets and my ordinary fowling-piece . the two muskets i loaded with a brace of slugs each , and four or five smaller bullets , about the size of pistol bullets ; and the fowling-piece i loaded with near a handful of swan-shot of the largest size ; i also loaded my pistols with about four bullets each ; and , in this posture , well provided with ammunition for a second and third charge , i prepared myself for my expedition .
after i had thus laid the scheme of my design , and in my imagination put it in practice , i continually made my tour every morning to the top of the hill , which was from my castle , as i called it , about three miles or more , to see if i could observe any boats upon the sea , coming near the island , or standing over towards it ; but i began to tire of this hard duty , after i had for two or three months constantly kept my watch , but came always back without any discovery ; there having not , in all that time , been the least appearance , not only on or near the shore , but on the whole ocean , so far as my eye or glass could reach every way .
as long as i kept my daily tour to the hill , to look out , so long also i kept up the vigour of my design , and my spirits seemed to be all the while in a suitable frame for so outrageous an execution as the killing twenty or thirty naked savages , for an offence which i had not at all entered into any discussion of in my thoughts , any farther than my passions were at first fired by the horror i conceived at the unnatural custom of the people of that country , who , it seems , had been suffered by providence , in his wise disposition of the world , to have no other guide than that of their own abominable and vitiated passions ; and consequently were left , and perhaps had been so for some ages , to act such horrid things , and receive such dreadful customs , as nothing but nature , entirely abandoned by heaven , and actuated by some hellish degeneracy , could have run them into .
but now , when , as i have said , i began to be weary of the fruitless excursion which i had made so long and so far every morning in vain , so my opinion of the action itself began to alter ; and i began , with cooler and calmer thoughts , to consider what i was going to engage in ; what authority or call i had to pretend to be judge and executioner upon these men as criminals , whom heaven had thought fit for so many ages to suffer unpunished to go on , and to be as it were the executioners of his judgments one upon another ; how far these people were offenders against me , and what right i had to engage in the quarrel of that blood which they shed promiscuously upon one another .
i debated this very often with myself thus : " how do i know what god himself judges in this particular case ?
it is certain these people do not commit this as a crime ; it is not against their own consciences reproving , or their light reproaching them ; they do not know it to be an offence , and then commit it in defiance of divine justice , as we do in almost all the sins we commit .
they think it no more a crime to kill a captive taken in war than we do to kill an ox ; or to eat human flesh than we do to eat mutton . "
when i considered this a little , it followed necessarily that i was certainly in the wrong ; that these people were not murderers , in the sense that i had before condemned them in my thoughts , any more than those christians were murderers who often put to death the prisoners taken in battle ; or more frequently , upon many occasions , put whole troops of men to the sword , without giving quarter , though they threw down their arms and submitted .
in the next place , it occurred to me that although the usage they gave one another was thus brutish and inhuman , yet it was really nothing to me : these people had done me no injury : that if they attempted , or i saw it necessary , for my immediate preservation , to fall upon them , something might be said for it : but that i was yet out of their power , and they really had no knowledge of me , and consequently no design upon me ; and therefore it could not be just for me to fall upon them ; that this would justify the conduct of the spaniards in all their barbarities practised in america , where they destroyed millions of these people ; who , however they were idolators and barbarians , and had several bloody and barbarous rites in their customs , such as sacrificing human bodies to their idols , were yet , as to the spaniards , very innocent people ; and that the rooting them out of the country is spoken of with the utmost abhorrence and detestation by even the spaniards themselves at this time , and by all other christian nations of europe , as a mere butchery , a bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty , unjustifiable either to god or man ; and for which the very name of a spaniard is reckoned to be frightful and terrible , to all people of humanity or of christian compassion ; as if the kingdom of spain were particularly eminent for the produce of a race of men who were without principles of tenderness , or the common bowels of pity to the miserable , which is reckoned to be a mark of generous temper in the mind .
these considerations really put me to a pause , and to a kind of a full stop ; and i began by little and little to be off my design , and to conclude i had taken wrong measures in my resolution to attack the savages ; and that it was not my business to meddle with them , unless they first attacked me ; and this it was my business , if possible , to prevent : but that , if i were discovered and attacked by them , i knew my duty .
on the other hand , i argued with myself that this really was the way not to deliver myself , but entirely to ruin and destroy myself ; for unless i was sure to kill every one that not only should be on shore at that time , but that should ever come on shore afterwards , if but one of them escaped to tell their country-people what had happened , they would come over again by thousands to revenge the death of their fellows , and i should only bring upon myself a certain destruction , which , at present , i had no manner of occasion for .
upon the whole , i concluded that i ought , neither in principle nor in policy , one way or other , to concern myself in this affair : that my business was , by all possible means to conceal myself from them , and not to leave the least sign for them to guess by that there were any living creatures upon the island - i mean of human shape .
religion joined in with this prudential resolution ; and i was convinced now , many ways , that i was perfectly out of my duty when i was laying all my bloody schemes for the destruction of innocent creatures - i mean innocent as to me .
as to the crimes they were guilty of towards one another , i had nothing to do with them ; they were national , and i ought to leave them to the justice of god , who is the governor of nations , and knows how , by national punishments , to make a just retribution for national offences , and to bring public judgments upon those who offend in a public manner , by such ways as best please him .
this appeared so clear to me now , that nothing was a greater satisfaction to me than that i had not been suffered to do a thing which i now saw so much reason to believe would have been no less a sin than that of wilful murder if i had committed it ; and i gave most humble thanks on my knees to god , that he had thus delivered me from blood-guiltiness ; beseeching him to grant me the protection of his providence , that i might not fall into the hands of the barbarians , or that i might not lay my hands upon them , unless i had a more clear call from heaven to do it , in defence of my own life .
in this disposition i continued for near a year after this ; and so far was i from desiring an occasion for falling upon these wretches , that in all that time i never once went up the hill to see whether there were any of them in sight , or to know whether any of them had been on shore there or not , that i might not be tempted to renew any of my contrivances against them , or be provoked by any advantage that might present itself to fall upon them ; only this i did : i went and removed my boat , which i had on the other side of the island , and carried it down to the east end of the whole island , where i ran it into a little cove , which i found under some high rocks , and where i knew , by reason of the currents , the savages durst not , at least would not , come with their boats upon any account whatever .
with my boat i carried away everything that i had left there belonging to her , though not necessary for the bare going thither - viz. a mast and sail which i had made for her , and a thing like an anchor , but which , indeed , could not be called either anchor or grapnel ; however , it was the best i could make of its kind : all these i removed , that there might not be the least shadow for discovery , or appearance of any boat , or of any human habitation upon the island .
besides this , i kept myself , as i said , more retired than ever , and seldom went from my cell except upon my constant employment , to milk my she-goats , and manage my little flock in the wood , which , as it was quite on the other part of the island , was out of danger ; for certain , it is that these savage people , who sometimes haunted this island , never came with any thoughts of finding anything here , and consequently never wandered off from the coast , and i doubt not but they might have been several times on shore after my apprehensions of them had made me cautious , as well as before .
indeed , i looked back with some horror upon the thoughts of what my condition would have been if i had chopped upon them and been discovered before that ; when , naked and unarmed , except with one gun , and that loaded often only with small shot , i walked everywhere , peeping and peering about the island , to see what i could get ; what a surprise should i have been in if , when i discovered the print of a man 's foot , i had , instead of that , seen fifteen or twenty savages , and found them pursuing me , and by the swiftness of their running no possibility of my escaping them !
the thoughts of this sometimes sank my very soul within me , and distressed my mind so much that i could not soon recover it , to think what i should have done , and how i should not only have been unable to resist them , but even should not have had presence of mind enough to do what i might have done ; much less what now , after so much consideration and preparation , i might be able to do .
indeed , after serious thinking of these things , i would be melancholy , and sometimes it would last a great while ; but i resolved it all at last into thankfulness to that providence which had delivered me from so many unseen dangers , and had kept me from those mischiefs which i could have no way been the agent in delivering myself from , because i had not the least notion of any such thing depending , or the least supposition of its being possible .
this renewed a contemplation which often had come into my thoughts in former times , when first i began to see the merciful dispositions of heaven , in the dangers we run through in this life ; how wonderfully we are delivered when we know nothing of it ; how , when we are in a quandary as we call it , a doubt or hesitation whether to go this way or that way , a secret hint shall direct us this way , when we intended to go that way : nay , when sense , our own inclination , and perhaps business has called us to go the other way , yet a strange impression upon the mind , from we know not what springs , and by we know not what power , shall overrule us to go this way ; and it shall afterwards appear that had we gone that way , which we should have gone , and even to our imagination ought to have gone , we should have been ruined and lost . upon these and many like reflections i afterwards made it a certain rule with me , that whenever i found those secret hints or pressings of mind to doing or not doing anything that presented , or going this way or that way , i never failed to obey the secret dictate ; though i knew no other reason for it than such a pressure or such a hint hung upon my mind .
i could give many examples of the success of this conduct in the course of my life , but more especially in the latter part of my inhabiting this unhappy island ; besides many occasions which it is very likely i might have taken notice of , if i had seen with the same eyes then that i see with now .
but it is never too late to be wise ; and i cannot but advise all considering men , whose lives are attended with such extraordinary incidents as mine , or even though not so extraordinary , not to slight such secret intimations of providence , let them come from what invisible intelligence they will .
that i shall not discuss , and perhaps cannot account for ; but certainly they are a proof of the converse of spirits , and a secret communication between those embodied and those unembodied , and such a proof as can never be withstood ; of which i shall have occasion to give some remarkable instances in the remainder of my solitary residence in this dismal place .
i believe the reader of this will not think it strange if i confess that these anxieties , these constant dangers i lived in , and the concern that was now upon me , put an end to all invention , and to all the contrivances that i had laid for my future accommodations and conveniences .
i had the care of my safety more now upon my hands than that of my food .
i cared not to drive a nail , or chop a stick of wood now , for fear the noise i might make should be heard : much less would i fire a gun for the same reason : and above all i was intolerably uneasy at making any fire , lest the smoke , which is visible at a great distance in the day , should betray me .
for this reason , i removed that part of my business which required fire , such as burning of pots and pipes , & c . , into my new apartment in the woods ; where , after i had been some time , i found , to my unspeakable consolation , a mere natural cave in the earth , which went in a vast way , and where , i daresay , no savage , had he been at the mouth of it , would be so hardy as to venture in ; nor , indeed , would any man else , but one who , like me , wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat .
the mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great rock , where , by mere accident ( i would say , if i did not see abundant reason to ascribe all such things now to providence ) , i was cutting down some thick branches of trees to make charcoal ; and before i go on i must observe the reason of my making this charcoal , which was this - i was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation , as i said before ; and yet i could not live there without baking my bread , cooking my meat , & c . ; so i contrived to burn some wood here , as i had seen done in england , under turf , till it became chark or dry coal : and then putting the fire out , i preserved the coal to carry home , and perform the other services for which fire was wanting , without danger of smoke .
but this is by-the-bye .
while i was cutting down some wood here , i perceived that , behind a very thick branch of low brushwood or underwood , there was a kind of hollow place : i was curious to look in it ; and getting with difficulty into the mouth of it , i found it was pretty large , that is to say , sufficient for me to stand upright in it , and perhaps another with me : but i must confess to you that i made more haste out than i did in , when looking farther into the place , and which was perfectly dark , i saw two broad shining eyes of some creature , whether devil or man i knew not , which twinkled like two stars ; the dim light from the cave 's mouth shining directly in , and making the reflection .
however , after some pause i recovered myself , and began to call myself a thousand fools , and to think that he that was afraid to see the devil was not fit to live twenty years in an island all alone ; and that i might well think there was nothing in this cave that was more frightful than myself .
upon this , plucking up my courage , i took up a firebrand , and in i rushed again , with the stick flaming in my hand : i had not gone three steps in before i was almost as frightened as before ; for i heard a very loud sigh , like that of a man in some pain , and it was followed by a broken noise , as of words half expressed , and then a deep sigh again .
i stepped back , and was indeed struck with such a surprise that it put me into a cold sweat , and if i had had a hat on my head , i will not answer for it that my hair might not have lifted it off .
but still plucking up my spirits as well as i could , and encouraging myself a little with considering that the power and presence of god was everywhere , and was able to protect me , i stepped forward again , and by the light of the firebrand , holding it up a little over my head , i saw lying on the ground a monstrous , frightful old he-goat , just making his will , as we say , and gasping for life , and , dying , indeed , of mere old age .
i stirred him a little to see if i could get him out , and he essayed to get up , but was not able to raise himself ; and i thought with myself he might even lie there - for if he had frightened me , so he would certainly fright any of the savages , if any of them should be so hardy as to come in there while he had any life in him .
i was now recovered from my surprise , and began to look round me , when i found the cave was but very small - that is to say , it might be about twelve feet over , but in no manner of shape , neither round nor square , no hands having ever been employed in making it but those of mere nature .
i observed also that there was a place at the farther side of it that went in further , but was so low that it required me to creep upon my hands and knees to go into it , and whither it went i knew not ; so , having no candle , i gave it over for that time , but resolved to go again the next day provided with candles and a tinder-box , which i had made of the lock of one of the muskets , with some wildfire in the pan .
accordingly , the next day i came provided with six large candles of my own making ( for i made very good candles now of goat 's tallow , but was hard set for candle-wick , using sometimes rags or rope-yarn , and sometimes the dried rind of a weed like nettles ) ; and going into this low place i was obliged to creep upon all-fours as i have said , almost ten yards - which , by the way , i thought was a venture bold enough , considering that i knew not how far it might go , nor what was beyond it .
when i had got through the strait , i found the roof rose higher up , i believe near twenty feet ; but never was such a glorious sight seen in the island , i daresay , as it was to look round the sides and roof of this vault or cave - the wall reflected a hundred thousand lights to me from my two candles .
what it was in the rock - whether diamonds or any other precious stones , or gold which i rather supposed it to be - i knew not .
the place i was in was a most delightful cavity , or grotto , though perfectly dark ; the floor was dry and level , and had a sort of a small loose gravel upon it , so that there was no nauseous or venomous creature to be seen , neither was there any damp or wet on the sides or roof .
the only difficulty in it was the entrance - which , however , as it was a place of security , and such a retreat as i wanted ; i thought was a convenience ; so that i was really rejoiced at the discovery , and resolved , without any delay , to bring some of those things which i was most anxious about to this place : particularly , i resolved to bring hither my magazine of powder , and all my spare arms - viz. two fowling-pieces - for i had three in all - and three muskets - for of them i had eight in all ; so i kept in my castle only five , which stood ready mounted like pieces of cannon on my outmost fence , and were ready also to take out upon any expedition .
upon this occasion of removing my ammunition i happened to open the barrel of powder which i took up out of the sea , and which had been wet , and i found that the water had penetrated about three or four inches into the powder on every side , which caking and growing hard , had preserved the inside like a kernel in the shell , so that i had near sixty pounds of very good powder in the centre of the cask .
this was a very agreeable discovery to me at that time ; so i carried all away thither , never keeping above two or three pounds of powder with me in my castle , for fear of a surprise of any kind ; i also carried thither all the lead i had left for bullets .
i fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants who were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks , where none could come at them ; for i persuaded myself , while i was here , that if five hundred savages were to hunt me , they could never find me out - or if they did , they would not venture to attack me here .
the old goat whom i found expiring died in the mouth of the cave the next day after i made this discovery ; and i found it much easier to dig a great hole there , and throw him in and cover him with earth , than to drag him out ; so i interred him there , to prevent offence to my nose .
i was now in the twenty-third year of my residence in this island , and was so naturalised to the place and the manner of living , that , could i but have enjoyed the certainty that no savages would come to the place to disturb me , i could have been content to have capitulated for spending the rest of my time there , even to the last moment , till i had laid me down and died , like the old goat in the cave .
i had also arrived to some little diversions and amusements , which made the time pass a great deal more pleasantly with me than it did before - first , i had taught my poll , as i noted before , to speak ; and he did it so familiarly , and talked so articulately and plain , that it was very pleasant to me ; and he lived with me no less than six-and-twenty years .
how long he might have lived afterwards i know not , though i know they have a notion in the brazils that they live a hundred years .
my dog was a pleasant and loving companion to me for no less than sixteen years of my time , and then died of mere old age .
as for my cats , they multiplied , as i have observed , to that degree that i was obliged to shoot several of them at first , to keep them from devouring me and all i had ; but at length , when the two old ones i brought with me were gone , and after some time continually driving them from me , and letting them have no provision with me , they all ran wild into the woods , except two or three favourites , which i kept tame , and whose young , when they had any , i always drowned ; and these were part of my family .
besides these i always kept two or three household kids about me , whom i taught to feed out of my hand ; and i had two more parrots , which talked pretty well , and would all call " robin crusoe , " but none like my first ; nor , indeed , did i take the pains with any of them that i had done with him .
i had also several tame sea-fowls , whose name i knew not , that i caught upon the shore , and cut their wings ; and the little stakes which i had planted before my castle-wall being now grown up to a good thick grove , these fowls all lived among these low trees , and bred there , which was very agreeable to me ; so that , as i said above , i began to be very well contented with the life i led , if i could have been secured from the dread of the savages .
but it was otherwise directed ; and it may not be amiss for all people who shall meet with my story to make this just observation from it : how frequently , in the course of our lives , the evil which in itself we seek most to shun , and which , when we are fallen into , is the most dreadful to us , is oftentimes the very means or door of our deliverance , by which alone we can be raised again from the affliction we are fallen into .
i could give many examples of this in the course of my unaccountable life ; but in nothing was it more particularly remarkable than in the circumstances of my last years of solitary residence in this island .
it was now the month of december , as i said above , in my twenty-third year ; and this , being the southern solstice ( for winter i cannot call it ) , was the particular time of my harvest , and required me to be pretty much abroad in the fields , when , going out early in the morning , even before it was thorough daylight , i was surprised with seeing a light of some fire upon the shore , at a distance from me of about two miles , toward that part of the island where i had observed some savages had been , as before , and not on the other side ; but , to my great affliction , it was on my side of the island .
i was indeed terribly surprised at the sight , and stopped short within my grove , not daring to go out , lest i might be surprised ; and yet i had no more peace within , from the apprehensions i had that if these savages , in rambling over the island , should find my corn standing or cut , or any of my works or improvements , they would immediately conclude that there were people in the place , and would then never rest till they had found me out .
in this extremity i went back directly to my castle , pulled up the ladder after me , and made all things without look as wild and natural as i could .
then i prepared myself within , putting myself in a posture of defence .
i loaded all my cannon , as i called them - that is to say , my muskets , which were mounted upon my new fortification - and all my pistols , and resolved to defend myself to the last gasp - not forgetting seriously to commend myself to the divine protection , and earnestly to pray to god to deliver me out of the hands of the barbarians .
i continued in this posture about two hours , and began to be impatient for intelligence abroad , for i had no spies to send out .
after sitting a while longer , and musing what i should do in this case , i was not able to bear sitting in ignorance longer ; so setting up my ladder to the side of the hill , where there was a flat place , as i observed before , and then pulling the ladder after me , i set it up again and mounted the top of the hill , and pulling out my perspective glass , which i had taken on purpose , i laid me down flat on my belly on the ground , and began to look for the place .
i presently found there were no less than nine naked savages sitting round a small fire they had made , not to warm them , for they had no need of that , the weather being extremely hot , but , as i supposed , to dress some of their barbarous diet of human flesh which they had brought with them , whether alive or dead i could not tell .
they had two canoes with them , which they had hauled up upon the shore ; and as it was then ebb of tide , they seemed to me to wait for the return of the flood to go away again .
it is not easy to imagine what confusion this sight put me into , especially seeing them come on my side of the island , and so near to me ; but when i considered their coming must be always with the current of the ebb , i began afterwards to be more sedate in my mind , being satisfied that i might go abroad with safety all the time of the flood of tide , if they were not on shore before ; and having made this observation , i went abroad about my harvest work with the more composure .
as i expected , so it proved ; for as soon as the tide made to the westward i saw them all take boat and row ( or paddle as we call it ) away .
i should have observed , that for an hour or more before they went off they were dancing , and i could easily discern their postures and gestures by my glass .
i could not perceive , by my nicest observation , but that they were stark naked , and had not the least covering upon them ; but whether they were men or women i could not distinguish .
as soon as i saw them shipped and gone , i took two guns upon my shoulders , and two pistols in my girdle , and my great sword by my side without a scabbard , and with all the speed i was able to make went away to the hill where i had discovered the first appearance of all ; and as soon as i get thither , which was not in less than two hours ( for i could not go quickly , being so loaded with arms as i was ) , i perceived there had been three canoes more of the savages at that place ; and looking out farther , i saw they were all at sea together , making over for the main .
this was a dreadful sight to me , especially as , going down to the shore , i could see the marks of horror which the dismal work they had been about had left behind it - viz. the blood , the bones , and part of the flesh of human bodies eaten and devoured by those wretches with merriment and sport .
i was so filled with indignation at the sight , that i now began to premeditate the destruction of the next that i saw there , let them be whom or how many soever .
it seemed evident to me that the visits which they made thus to this island were not very frequent , for it was above fifteen months before any more of them came on shore there again - that is to say , i neither saw them nor any footsteps or signals of them in all that time ; for as to the rainy seasons , then they are sure not to come abroad , at least not so far .
yet all this while i lived uncomfortably , by reason of the constant apprehensions of their coming upon me by surprise : from whence i observe , that the expectation of evil is more bitter than the suffering , especially if there is no room to shake off that expectation or those apprehensions .
during all this time i was in a murdering humour , and spent most of my hours , which should have been better employed , in contriving how to circumvent and fall upon them the very next time i should see them - especially if they should be divided , as they were the last time , into two parties ; nor did i consider at all that if i killed one party - suppose ten or a dozen - i was still the next day , or week , or month , to kill another , and so another , even _ ad infinitum _ , till i should be , at length , no less a murderer than they were in being man-eaters - and perhaps much more so .
i spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety of mind , expecting that i should one day or other fall , into the hands of these merciless creatures ; and if i did at any time venture abroad , it was not without looking around me with the greatest care and caution imaginable .
and now i found , to my great comfort , how happy it was that i had provided a tame flock or herd of goats , for i durst not upon any account fire my gun , especially near that side of the island where they usually came , lest i should alarm the savages ; and if they had fled from me now , i was sure to have them come again with perhaps two or three hundred canoes with them in a few days , and then i knew what to expect .
however , i wore out a year and three months more before i ever saw any more of the savages , and then i found them again , as i shall soon observe .
it is true they might have been there once or twice ; but either they made no stay , or at least i did not see them ; but in the month of may , as near as i could calculate , and in my four-and-twentieth year , i had a very strange encounter with them ; of which in its place .
the perturbation of my mind during this fifteen or sixteen months ' interval was very great ; i slept unquietly , dreamed always frightful dreams , and often started out of my sleep in the night .
in the day great troubles overwhelmed my mind ; and in the night i dreamed often of killing the savages and of the reasons why i might justify doing it .
but to waive all this for a while .
it was in the middle of may , on the sixteenth day , i think , as well as my poor wooden calendar would reckon , for i marked all upon the post still ; i say , it was on the sixteenth of may that it blew a very great storm of wind all day , with a great deal of lightning and thunder , and ; a very foul night it was after it .
i knew not what was the particular occasion of it , but as i was reading in the bible , and taken up with very serious thoughts about my present condition , i was surprised with the noise of a gun , as i thought , fired at sea .
this was , to be sure , a surprise quite of a different nature from any i had met with before ; for the notions this put into my thoughts were quite of another kind .
i started up in the greatest haste imaginable ; and , in a trice , clapped my ladder to the middle place of the rock , and pulled it after me ; and mounting it the second time , got to the top of the hill the very moment that a flash of fire bid me listen for a second gun , which , accordingly , in about half a minute i heard ; and by the sound , knew that it was from that part of the sea where i was driven down the current in my boat .
i immediately considered that this must be some ship in distress , and that they had some comrade , or some other ship in company , and fired these for signals of distress , and to obtain help . i had the presence of mind at that minute to think , that though i could not help them , it might be that they might help me ; so i brought together all the dry wood i could get at hand , and making a good handsome pile , i set it on fire upon the hill .
the wood was dry , and blazed freely ; and , though the wind blew very hard , yet it burned fairly out ; so that i was certain , if there was any such thing as a ship , they must needs see it . and no doubt they did ; for as soon as ever my fire blazed up , i heard another gun , and after that several others , all from the same quarter .
i plied my fire all night long , till daybreak : and when it was broad day , and the air cleared up , i saw something at a great distance at sea , full east of the island , whether a sail or a hull i could not distinguish - no , not with my glass : the distance was so great , and the weather still something hazy also ; at least , it was so out at sea .
i looked frequently at it all that day , and soon perceived that it did not move ; so i presently concluded that it was a ship at anchor ; and being eager , you may be sure , to be satisfied , i took my gun in my hand , and ran towards the south side of the island to the rocks where i had formerly been carried away by the current ; and getting up there , the weather by this time being perfectly clear , i could plainly see , to my great sorrow , the wreck of a ship , cast away in the night upon those concealed rocks which i found when i was out in my boat ; and which rocks , as they checked the violence of the stream , and made a kind of counter-stream , or eddy , were the occasion of my recovering from the most desperate , hopeless condition that ever i had been in in all my life . thus , what is one man 's safety is another man 's destruction ; for it seems these men , whoever they were , being out of their knowledge , and the rocks being wholly under water , had been driven upon them in the night , the wind blowing hard at ene .
had they seen the island , as i must necessarily suppose they did not , they must , as i thought , have endeavoured to have saved themselves on shore by the help of their boat ; but their firing off guns for help , especially when they saw , as i imagined , my fire , filled me with many thoughts .
first , i imagined that upon seeing my light they might have put themselves into their boat , and endeavoured to make the shore : but that the sea running very high , they might have been cast away . other times i imagined that they might have lost their boat before , as might be the case many ways ; particularly by the breaking of the sea upon their ship , which many times obliged men to stave , or take in pieces , their boat , and sometimes to throw it overboard with their own hands .
other times i imagined they had some other ship or ships in company , who , upon the signals of distress they made , had taken them up , and carried them off .
other times i fancied they were all gone off to sea in their boat , and being hurried away by the current that i had been formerly in , were carried out into the great ocean , where there was nothing but misery and perishing : and that , perhaps , they might by this time think of starving , and of being in a condition to eat one another .
as all these were but conjectures at best , so , in the condition i was in , i could do no more than look on upon the misery of the poor men , and pity them ; which had still this good effect upon my side , that it gave me more and more cause to give thanks to god , who had so happily and comfortably provided for me in my desolate condition ; and that of two ships ' companies , who were now cast away upon this part of the world , not one life should be spared but mine .
i learned here again to observe , that it is very rare that the providence of god casts us into any condition so low , or any misery so great , but we may see something or other to be thankful for , and may see others in worse circumstances than our own .
such certainly was the case of these men , of whom i could not so much as see room to suppose any were saved ; nothing could make it rational so much as to wish or expect that they did not all perish there , except the possibility only of their being taken up by another ship in company ; and this was but mere possibility indeed , for i saw not the least sign or appearance of any such thing .
i cannot explain , by any possible energy of words , what a strange longing i felt in my soul upon this sight , breaking out sometimes thus : " oh that there had been but one or two , nay , or but one soul saved out of this ship , to have escaped to me , that i might but have had one companion , one fellow-creature , to have spoken to me and to have conversed with ! "
in all the time of my solitary life i never felt so earnest , so strong a desire after the society of my fellow-creatures , or so deep a regret at the want of it .
there are some secret springs in the affections which , when they are set a-going by some object in view , or , though not in view , yet rendered present to the mind by the power of imagination , that motion carries out the soul , by its impetuosity , to such violent , eager embracings of the object , that the absence of it is insupportable . such were these earnest wishings that but one man had been saved .
i believe i repeated the words , " oh that it had been but one ! " a thousand times ; and my desires were so moved by it , that when i spoke the words my hands would clinch together , and my fingers would press the palms of my hands , so that if i had had any soft thing in my hand i should have crushed it involuntarily ; and the teeth in my head would strike together , and set against one another so strong , that for some time i could not part them again . let the naturalists explain these things , and the reason and manner of them .
all i can do is to describe the fact , which was even surprising to me when i found it , though i knew not from whence it proceeded ; it was doubtless the effect of ardent wishes , and of strong ideas formed in my mind , realising the comfort which the conversation of one of my fellow-christians would have been to me . but it was not to be ; either their fate or mine , or both , forbade it ; for , till the last year of my being on this island , i never knew whether any were saved out of that ship or no ; and had only the affliction , some days after , to see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore at the end of the island which was next the shipwreck .
he had no clothes on but a seaman 's waistcoat , a pair of open-kneed linen drawers , and a blue linen shirt ; but nothing to direct me so much as to guess what nation he was of .
he had nothing in his pockets but two pieces of eight and a tobacco pipe - the last was to me of ten times more value than the first .
it was now calm , and i had a great mind to venture out in my boat to this wreck , not doubting but i might find something on board that might be useful to me .
but that did not altogether press me so much as the possibility that there might be yet some living creature on board , whose life i might not only save , but might , by saving that life , comfort my own to the last degree ; and this thought clung so to my heart that i could not be quiet night or day , but i must venture out in my boat on board this wreck ; and committing the rest to god 's providence , i thought the impression was so strong upon my mind that it could not be resisted - that it must come from some invisible direction , and that i should be wanting to myself if i did not go .
under the power of this impression , i hastened back to my castle , prepared everything for my voyage , took a quantity of bread , a great pot of fresh water , a compass to steer by , a bottle of rum ( for i had still a great deal of that left ) , and a basket of raisins ; and thus , loading myself with everything necessary .
i went down to my boat , got the water out of her , got her afloat , loaded all my cargo in her , and then went home again for more .
my second cargo was a great bag of rice , the umbrella to set up over my head for a shade , another large pot of water , and about two dozen of small loaves , or barley cakes , more than before , with a bottle of goat 's milk and a cheese ; all which with great labour and sweat i carried to my boat ; and praying to god to direct my voyage , i put out , and rowing or paddling the canoe along the shore , came at last to the utmost point of the island on the north-east side .
and now i was to launch out into the ocean , and either to venture or not to venture .
i looked on the rapid currents which ran constantly on both sides of the island at a distance , and which were very terrible to me from the remembrance of the hazard i had been in before , and my heart began to fail me ; for i foresaw that if i was driven into either of those currents , i should be carried a great way out to sea , and perhaps out of my reach or sight of the island again ; and that then , as my boat was but small , if any little gale of wind should rise , i should be inevitably lost .
these thoughts so oppressed my mind that i began to give over my enterprise ; and having hauled my boat into a little creek on the shore , i stepped out , and sat down upon a rising bit of ground , very pensive and anxious , between fear and desire , about my voyage ; when , as i was musing , i could perceive that the tide was turned , and the flood come on ; upon which my going was impracticable for so many hours .
upon this , presently it occurred to me that i should go up to the highest piece of ground i could find , and observe , if i could , how the sets of the tide or currents lay when the flood came in , that i might judge whether , if i was driven one way out , i might not expect to be driven another way home , with the same rapidity of the currents .
this thought was no sooner in my head than i cast my eye upon a little hill which sufficiently overlooked the sea both ways , and from whence i had a clear view of the currents or sets of the tide , and which way i was to guide myself in my return . here i found , that as the current of ebb set out close by the south point of the island , so the current of the flood set in close by the shore of the north side ; and that i had nothing to do but to keep to the north side of the island in my return , and i should do well enough .
encouraged by this observation , i resolved the next morning to set out with the first of the tide ; and reposing myself for the night in my canoe , under the watch-coat i mentioned , i launched out .
i first made a little out to sea , full north , till i began to feel the benefit of the current , which set eastward , and which carried me at a great rate ; and yet did not so hurry me as the current on the south side had done before , so as to take from me all government of the boat ; but having a strong steerage with my paddle , i went at a great rate directly for the wreck , and in less than two hours i came up to it .
it was a dismal sight to look at ; the ship , which by its building was spanish , stuck fast , jammed in between two rocks .
all the stern and quarter of her were beaten to pieces by the sea ; and as her forecastle , which stuck in the rocks , had run on with great violence , her mainmast and foremast were brought by the board - that is to say , broken short off ; but her bowsprit was sound , and the head and bow appeared firm . when i came close to her , a dog appeared upon her , who , seeing me coming , yelped and cried ; and as soon as i called him , jumped into the sea to come to me .
i took him into the boat , but found him almost dead with hunger and thirst .
i gave him a cake of my bread , and he devoured it like a ravenous wolf that had been starving a fortnight in the snow ; i then gave the poor creature some fresh water , with which , if i would have let him , he would have burst himself .
after this i went on board ; but the first sight i met with was two men drowned in the cook-room , or forecastle of the ship , with their arms fast about one another .
i concluded , as is indeed probable , that when the ship struck , it being in a storm , the sea broke so high and so continually over her , that the men were not able to bear it , and were strangled with the constant rushing in of the water , as much as if they had been under water . besides the dog , there was nothing left in the ship that had life ; nor any goods , that i could see , but what were spoiled by the water .
there were some casks of liquor , whether wine or brandy i knew not , which lay lower in the hold , and which , the water being ebbed out , i could see ; but they were too big to meddle with .
i saw several chests , which i believe belonged to some of the seamen ; and i got two of them into the boat , without examining what was in them .
had the stern of the ship been fixed , and the forepart broken off , i am persuaded i might have made a good voyage ; for by what i found in those two chests i had room to suppose the ship had a great deal of wealth on board ; and , if i may guess from the course she steered , she must have been bound from buenos ayres , or the rio de la plata , in the south part of america , beyond the brazils to the havannah , in the gulf of mexico , and so perhaps to spain .
she had , no doubt , a great treasure in her , but of no use , at that time , to anybody ; and what became of the crew i then knew not .
i found , besides these chests , a little cask full of liquor , of about twenty gallons , which i got into my boat with much difficulty .
there were several muskets in the cabin , and a great powder-horn , with about four pounds of powder in it ; as for the muskets , i had no occasion for them , so i left them , but took the powder-horn .
i took a fire-shovel and tongs , which i wanted extremely , as also two little brass kettles , a copper pot to make chocolate , and a gridiron ; and with this cargo , and the dog , i came away , the tide beginning to make home again - and the same evening , about an hour within night , i reached the island again , weary and fatigued to the last degree .
i reposed that night in the boat and in the morning i resolved to harbour what i had got in my new cave , and not carry it home to my castle .
after refreshing myself , i got all my cargo on shore , and began to examine the particulars .
the cask of liquor i found to be a kind of rum , but not such as we had at the brazils ; and , in a word , not at all good ; but when i came to open the chests , i found several things of great use to me - for example , i found in one a fine case of bottles , of an extraordinary kind , and filled with cordial waters , fine and very good ; the bottles held about three pints each , and were tipped with silver .
i found two pots of very good succades , or sweetmeats , so fastened also on the top that the salt-water had not hurt them ; and two more of the same , which the water had spoiled .
i found some very good shirts , which were very welcome to me ; and about a dozen and a half of white linen handkerchiefs and coloured neckcloths ; the former were also very welcome , being exceedingly refreshing to wipe my face in a hot day .
besides this , when i came to the till in the chest , i found there three great bags of pieces of eight , which held about eleven hundred pieces in all ; and in one of them , wrapped up in a paper , six doubloons of gold , and some small bars or wedges of gold ; i suppose they might all weigh near a pound .
in the other chest were some clothes , but of little value ; but , by the circumstances , it must have belonged to the gunner 's mate ; though there was no powder in it , except two pounds of fine glazed powder , in three flasks , kept , i suppose , for charging their fowling-pieces on occasion .
upon the whole , i got very little by this voyage that was of any use to me ; for , as to the money , i had no manner of occasion for it ; it was to me as the dirt under my feet , and i would have given it all for three or four pair of english shoes and stockings , which were things i greatly wanted , but had had none on my feet for many years .
i had , indeed , got two pair of shoes now , which i took off the feet of two drowned men whom i saw in the wreck , and i found two pair more in one of the chests , which were very welcome to me ; but they were not like our english shoes , either for ease or service , being rather what we call pumps than shoes .
i found in this seaman 's chest about fifty pieces of eight , in rials , but no gold : i supposed this belonged to a poorer man than the other , which seemed to belong to some officer .
well , however , i lugged this money home to my cave , and laid it up , as i had done that before which i had brought from our own ship ; but it was a great pity , as i said , that the other part of this ship had not come to my share : for i am satisfied i might have loaded my canoe several times over with money ; and , thought i , if i ever escape to england , it might lie here safe enough till i come again and fetch it .
having now brought all my things on shore and secured them , i went back to my boat , and rowed or paddled her along the shore to her old harbour , where i laid her up , and made the best of my way to my old habitation , where i found everything safe and quiet .
i began now to repose myself , live after my old fashion , and take care of my family affairs ; and for a while i lived easy enough , only that i was more vigilant than i used to be , looked out oftener , and did not go abroad so much ; and if at any time i did stir with any freedom , it was always to the east part of the island , where i was pretty well satisfied the savages never came , and where i could go without so many precautions , and such a load of arms and ammunition as i always carried with me if i went the other way .
i lived in this condition near two years more ; but my unlucky head , that was always to let me know it was born to make my body miserable , was all these two years filled with projects and designs how , if it were possible , i might get away from this island : for sometimes i was for making another voyage to the wreck , though my reason told me that there was nothing left there worth the hazard of my voyage ; sometimes for a ramble one way , sometimes another - and i believe verily , if i had had the boat that i went from sallee in , i should have ventured to sea , bound anywhere , i knew not whither .
i have been , in all my circumstances , a memento to those who are touched with the general plague of mankind , whence , for aught i know , one half of their miseries flow : i mean that of not being satisfied with the station wherein god and nature hath placed them - for , not to look back upon my primitive condition , and the excellent advice of my father , the opposition to which was , as i may call it , my _ original sin _ , my subsequent mistakes of the same kind had been the means of my coming into this miserable condition ; for had that providence which so happily seated me at the brazils as a planter blessed me with confined desires , and i could have been contented to have gone on gradually , i might have been by this time - i mean in the time of my being in this island - one of the most considerable planters in the brazils - nay , i am persuaded , that by the improvements i had made in that little time i lived there , and the increase i should probably have made if i had remained , i might have been worth a hundred thousand moidores - and what business had i to leave a settled fortune , a well-stocked plantation , improving and increasing , to turn supercargo to guinea to fetch negroes , when patience and time would have so increased our stock at home , that we could have bought them at our own door from those whose business it was to fetch them ? and though it had cost us something more , yet the difference of that price was by no means worth saving at so great a hazard .
but as this is usually the fate of young heads , so reflection upon the folly of it is as commonly the exercise of more years , or of the dear-bought experience of time - so it was with me now ; and yet so deep had the mistake taken root in my temper , that i could not satisfy myself in my station , but was continually poring upon the means and possibility of my escape from this place ; and that i may , with greater pleasure to the reader , bring on the remaining part of my story , it may not be improper to give some account of my first conceptions on the subject of this foolish scheme for my escape , and how , and upon what foundation , i acted .
i am now to be supposed retired into my castle , after my late voyage to the wreck , my frigate laid up and secured under water , as usual , and my condition restored to what it was before : i had more wealth , indeed , than i had before , but was not at all the richer ; for i had no more use for it than the indians of peru had before the spaniards came there .
it was one of the nights in the rainy season in march , the four-and-twentieth year of my first setting foot in this island of solitude , i was lying in my bed or hammock , awake , very well in health , had no pain , no distemper , no uneasiness of body , nor any uneasiness of mind more than ordinary , but could by no means close my eyes , that is , so as to sleep ; no , not a wink all night long , otherwise than as follows : it is impossible to set down the innumerable crowd of thoughts that whirled through that great thoroughfare of the brain , the memory , in this night 's time .
i ran over the whole history of my life in miniature , or by abridgment , as i may call it , to my coming to this island , and also of that part of my life since i came to this island .
in my reflections upon the state of my case since i came on shore on this island , i was comparing the happy posture of my affairs in the first years of my habitation here , with the life of anxiety , fear , and care which i had lived in ever since i had seen the print of a foot in the sand .
not that i did not believe the savages had frequented the island even all the while , and might have been several hundreds of them at times on shore there ; but i had never known it , and was incapable of any apprehensions about it ; my satisfaction was perfect , though my danger was the same , and i was as happy in not knowing my danger as if i had never really been exposed to it .
this furnished my thoughts with many very profitable reflections , and particularly this one : how infinitely good that providence is , which has provided , in its government of mankind , such narrow bounds to his sight and knowledge of things ; and though he walks in the midst of so many thousand dangers , the sight of which , if discovered to him , would distract his mind and sink his spirits , he is kept serene and calm , by having the events of things hid from his eyes , and knowing nothing of the dangers which surround him .
after these thoughts had for some time entertained me , i came to reflect seriously upon the real danger i had been in for so many years in this very island , and how i had walked about in the greatest security , and with all possible tranquillity , even when perhaps nothing but the brow of a hill , a great tree , or the casual approach of night , had been between me and the worst kind of destruction - viz. that of falling into the hands of cannibals and savages , who would have seized on me with the same view as i would on a goat or turtle ; and have thought it no more crime to kill and devour me than i did of a pigeon or a curlew .
i would unjustly slander myself if i should say i was not sincerely thankful to my great preserver , to whose singular protection i acknowledged , with great humanity , all these unknown deliverances were due , and without which i must inevitably have fallen into their merciless hands .
when these thoughts were over , my head was for some time taken up in considering the nature of these wretched creatures , i mean the savages , and how it came to pass in the world that the wise governor of all things should give up any of his creatures to such inhumanity - nay , to something so much below even brutality itself - as to devour its own kind : but as this ended in some ( at that time ) fruitless speculations , it occurred to me to inquire what part of the world these wretches lived in ? how far off the coast was from whence they came ? what they ventured over so far from home for ? what kind of boats they had ? and why i might not order myself and my business so that i might be able to go over thither , as they were to come to me ?
i never so much as troubled myself to consider what i should do with myself when i went thither ; what would become of me if i fell into the hands of these savages ; or how i should escape them if they attacked me ; no , nor so much as how it was possible for me to reach the coast , and not to be attacked by some or other of them , without any possibility of delivering myself : and if i should not fall into their hands , what i should do for provision , or whither i should bend my course : none of these thoughts , i say , so much as came in my way ; but my mind was wholly bent upon the notion of my passing over in my boat to the mainland .
i looked upon my present condition as the most miserable that could possibly be ; that i was not able to throw myself into anything but death , that could be called worse ; and if i reached the shore of the main i might perhaps meet with relief , or i might coast along , as i did on the african shore , till i came to some inhabited country , and where i might find some relief ; and after all , perhaps i might fall in with some christian ship that might take me in : and if the worst came to the worst , i could but die , which would put an end to all these miseries at once .
pray note , all this was the fruit of a disturbed mind , an impatient temper , made desperate , as it were , by the long continuance of my troubles , and the disappointments i had met in the wreck i had been on board of , and where i had been so near obtaining what i so earnestly longed for - somebody to speak to , and to learn some knowledge from them of the place where i was , and of the probable means of my deliverance .
i was agitated wholly by these thoughts ; all my calm of mind , in my resignation to providence , and waiting the issue of the dispositions of heaven , seemed to be suspended ; and i had as it were no power to turn my thoughts to anything but to the project of a voyage to the main , which came upon me with such force , and such an impetuosity of desire , that it was not to be resisted .
when this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or more , with such violence that it set my very blood into a ferment , and my pulse beat as if i had been in a fever , merely with the extraordinary fervour of my mind about it , nature - as if i had been fatigued and exhausted with the very thoughts of it - threw me into a sound sleep .
one would have thought i should have dreamed of it , but i did not , nor of anything relating to it , but i dreamed that as i was going out in the morning as usual from my castle , i saw upon the shore two canoes and eleven savages coming to land , and that they brought with them another savage whom they were going to kill in order to eat him ; when , on a sudden , the savage that they were going to kill jumped away , and ran for his life ; and i thought in my sleep that he came running into my little thick grove before my fortification , to hide himself ; and that i seeing him alone , and not perceiving that the others sought him that way , showed myself to him , and smiling upon him , encouraged him : that he kneeled down to me , seeming to pray me to assist him ; upon which i showed him my ladder , made him go up , and carried him into my cave , and he became my servant ; and that as soon as i had got this man , i said to myself , " now i may certainly venture to the mainland , for this fellow will serve me as a pilot , and will tell me what to do , and whither to go for provisions , and whither not to go for fear of being devoured ; what places to venture into , and what to shun . "
i waked with this thought ; and was under such inexpressible impressions of joy at the prospect of my escape in my dream , that the disappointments which i felt upon coming to myself , and finding that it was no more than a dream , were equally extravagant the other way , and threw me into a very great dejection of spirits .
upon this , however , i made this conclusion : that my only way to go about to attempt an escape was , to endeavour to get a savage into my possession : and , if possible , it should be one of their prisoners , whom they had condemned to be eaten , and should bring hither to kill .
but these thoughts still were attended with this difficulty : that it was impossible to effect this without attacking a whole caravan of them , and killing them all ; and this was not only a very desperate attempt , and might miscarry , but , on the other hand , i had greatly scrupled the lawfulness of it to myself ; and my heart trembled at the thoughts of shedding so much blood , though it was for my deliverance .
i need not repeat the arguments which occurred to me against this , they being the same mentioned before ; but though i had other reasons to offer now - viz. that those men were enemies to my life , and would devour me if they could ; that it was self-preservation , in the highest degree , to deliver myself from this death of a life , and was acting in my own defence as much as if they were actually assaulting me , and the like ; i say though these things argued for it , yet the thoughts of shedding human blood for my deliverance were very terrible to me , and such as i could by no means reconcile myself to for a great while .
however , at last , after many secret disputes with myself , and after great perplexities about it ( for all these arguments , one way and another , struggled in my head a long time ) , the eager prevailing desire of deliverance at length mastered all the rest ; and i resolved , if possible , to get one of these savages into my hands , cost what it would .
my next thing was to contrive how to do it , and this , indeed , was very difficult to resolve on ; but as i could pitch upon no probable means for it , so i resolved to put myself upon the watch , to see them when they came on shore , and leave the rest to the event ; taking such measures as the opportunity should present , let what would be .
with these resolutions in my thoughts , i set myself upon the scout as often as possible , and indeed so often that i was heartily tired of it ; for it was above a year and a half that i waited ; and for great part of that time went out to the west end , and to the south-west corner of the island almost every day , to look for canoes , but none appeared .
this was very discouraging , and began to trouble me much , though i cannot say that it did in this case ( as it had done some time before ) wear off the edge of my desire to the thing ; but the longer it seemed to be delayed , the more eager i was for it : in a word , i was not at first so careful to shun the sight of these savages , and avoid being seen by them , as i was now eager to be upon them .
besides , i fancied myself able to manage one , nay , two or three savages , if i had them , so as to make them entirely slaves to me , to do whatever i should direct them , and to prevent their being able at any time to do me any hurt .
it was a great while that i pleased myself with this affair ; but nothing still presented itself ; all my fancies and schemes came to nothing , for no savages came near me for a great while .
about a year and a half after i entertained these notions ( and by long musing had , as it were , resolved them all into nothing , for want of an occasion to put them into execution ) , i was surprised one morning by seeing no less than five canoes all on shore together on my side the island , and the people who belonged to them all landed and out of my sight .
the number of them broke all my measures ; for seeing so many , and knowing that they always came four or six , or sometimes more in a boat , i could not tell what to think of it , or how to take my measures to attack twenty or thirty men single-handed ; so lay still in my castle , perplexed and discomforted .
however , i put myself into the same position for an attack that i had formerly provided , and was just ready for action , if anything had presented .
having waited a good while , listening to hear if they made any noise , at length , being very impatient , i set my guns at the foot of my ladder , and clambered up to the top of the hill , by my two stages , as usual ; standing so , however , that my head did not appear above the hill , so that they could not perceive me by any means .
here i observed , by the help of my perspective glass , that they were no less than thirty in number ; that they had a fire kindled , and that they had meat dressed . how they had cooked it i knew not , or what it was ; but they were all dancing , in i know not how many barbarous gestures and figures , their own way , round the fire .
while i was thus looking on them , i perceived , by my perspective , two miserable wretches dragged from the boats , where , it seems , they were laid by , and were now brought out for the slaughter .
i perceived one of them immediately fall ; being knocked down , i suppose , with a club or wooden sword , for that was their way ; and two or three others were at work immediately , cutting him open for their cookery , while the other victim was left standing by himself , till they should be ready for him .
in that very moment this poor wretch , seeing himself a little at liberty and unbound , nature inspired him with hopes of life , and he started away from them , and ran with incredible swiftness along the sands , directly towards me ; i mean towards that part of the coast where my habitation was .
i was dreadfully frightened , i must acknowledge , when i perceived him run my way ; and especially when , as i thought , i saw him pursued by the whole body : and now i expected that part of my dream was coming to pass , and that he would certainly take shelter in my grove ; but i could not depend , by any means , upon my dream , that the other savages would not pursue him thither and find him there .
however , i kept my station , and my spirits began to recover when i found that there was not above three men that followed him ; and still more was i encouraged , when i found that he outstripped them exceedingly in running , and gained ground on them ; so that , if he could but hold out for half-an-hour , i saw easily he would fairly get away from them all .
there was between them and my castle the creek , which i mentioned often in the first part of my story , where i landed my cargoes out of the ship ; and this i saw plainly he must necessarily swim over , or the poor wretch would be taken there ; but when the savage escaping came thither , he made nothing of it , though the tide was then up ; but plunging in , swam through in about thirty strokes , or thereabouts , landed , and ran with exceeding strength and swiftness .
when the three persons came to the creek , i found that two of them could swim , but the third could not , and that , standing on the other side , he looked at the others , but went no farther , and soon after went softly back again ; which , as it happened , was very well for him in the end .
i observed that the two who swam were yet more than twice as strong swimming over the creek as the fellow was that fled from them .
it came very warmly upon my thoughts , and indeed irresistibly , that now was the time to get me a servant , and , perhaps , a companion or assistant ; and that i was plainly called by providence to save this poor creature 's life .
i immediately ran down the ladders with all possible expedition , fetched my two guns , for they were both at the foot of the ladders , as i observed before , and getting up again with the same haste to the top of the hill , i crossed towards the sea ; and having a very short cut , and all down hill , placed myself in the way between the pursuers and the pursued , hallowing aloud to him that fled , who , looking back , was at first perhaps as much frightened at me as at them ; but i beckoned with my hand to him to come back ; and , in the meantime , i slowly advanced towards the two that followed ; then rushing at once upon the foremost , i knocked him down with the stock of my piece .
i was loath to fire , because i would not have the rest hear ; though , at that distance , it would not have been easily heard , and being out of sight of the smoke , too , they would not have known what to make of it .
having knocked this fellow down , the other who pursued him stopped , as if he had been frightened , and i advanced towards him : but as i came nearer , i perceived presently he had a bow and arrow , and was fitting it to shoot at me : so i was then obliged to shoot at him first , which i did , and killed him at the first shot .
the poor savage who fled , but had stopped , though he saw both his enemies fallen and killed , as he thought , yet was so frightened with the fire and noise of my piece that he stood stock still , and neither came forward nor went backward , though he seemed rather inclined still to fly than to come on .
i hallooed again to him , and made signs to come forward , which he easily understood , and came a little way ; then stopped again , and then a little farther , and stopped again ; and i could then perceive that he stood trembling , as if he had been taken prisoner , and had just been to be killed , as his two enemies were .
i beckoned to him again to come to me , and gave him all the signs of encouragement that i could think of ; and he came nearer and nearer , kneeling down every ten or twelve steps , in token of acknowledgment for saving his life .
i smiled at him , and looked pleasantly , and beckoned to him to come still nearer ; at length he came close to me ; and then he kneeled down again , kissed the ground , and laid his head upon the ground , and taking me by the foot , set my foot upon his head ; this , it seems , was in token of swearing to be my slave for ever .
i took him up and made much of him , and encouraged him all i could .
but there was more work to do yet ; for i perceived the savage whom i had knocked down was not killed , but stunned with the blow , and began to come to himself : so i pointed to him , and showed him the savage , that he was not dead ; upon this he spoke some words to me , and though i could not understand them , yet i thought they were pleasant to hear ; for they were the first sound of a man 's voice that i had heard , my own excepted , for above twenty-five years .
but there was no time for such reflections now ; the savage who was knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit up upon the ground , and i perceived that my savage began to be afraid ; but when i saw that , i presented my other piece at the man , as if i would shoot him : upon this my savage , for so i call him now , made a motion to me to lend him my sword , which hung naked in a belt by my side , which i did .
he no sooner had it , but he runs to his enemy , and at one blow cut off his head so cleverly , no executioner in germany could have done it sooner or better ; which i thought very strange for one who , i had reason to believe , never saw a sword in his life before , except their own wooden swords : however , it seems , as i learned afterwards , they make their wooden swords so sharp , so heavy , and the wood is so hard , that they will even cut off heads with them , ay , and arms , and that at one blow , too .
when he had done this , he comes laughing to me in sign of triumph , and brought me the sword again , and with abundance of gestures which i did not understand , laid it down , with the head of the savage that he had killed , just before me .
but that which astonished him most was to know how i killed the other indian so far off ; so , pointing to him , he made signs to me to let him go to him ; and i bade him go , as well as i could .
when he came to him , he stood like one amazed , looking at him , turning him first on one side , then on the other ; looked at the wound the bullet had made , which it seems was just in his breast , where it had made a hole , and no great quantity of blood had followed ; but he had bled inwardly , for he was quite dead .
he took up his bow and arrows , and came back ; so i turned to go away , and beckoned him to follow me , making signs to him that more might come after them .
upon this he made signs to me that he should bury them with sand , that they might not be seen by the rest , if they followed ; and so i made signs to him again to do so .
he fell to work ; and in an instant he had scraped a hole in the sand with his hands big enough to bury the first in , and then dragged him into it , and covered him ; and did so by the other also ; i believe he had him buried them both in a quarter of an hour .
then , calling away , i carried him , not to my castle , but quite away to my cave , on the farther part of the island : so i did not let my dream come to pass in that part , that he came into my grove for shelter .
here i gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat , and a draught of water , which i found he was indeed in great distress for , from his running : and having refreshed him , i made signs for him to go and lie down to sleep , showing him a place where i had laid some rice-straw , and a blanket upon it , which i used to sleep upon myself sometimes ; so the poor creature lay down , and went to sleep .
he was a comely , handsome fellow , perfectly well made , with straight , strong limbs , not too large ; tall , and well-shaped ; and , as i reckon , about twenty-six years of age .
he had a very good countenance , not a fierce and surly aspect , but seemed to have something very manly in his face ; and yet he had all the sweetness and softness of a european in his countenance , too , especially when he smiled .
his hair was long and black , not curled like wool ; his forehead very high and large ; and a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes .
the colour of his skin was not quite black , but very tawny ; and yet not an ugly , yellow , nauseous tawny , as the brazilians and virginians , and other natives of america are , but of a bright kind of a dun olive-colour , that had in it something very agreeable , though not very easy to describe .
his face was round and plump ; his nose small , not flat , like the negroes ; a very good mouth , thin lips , and his fine teeth well set , and as white as ivory .
after he had slumbered , rather than slept , about half-an-hour , he awoke again , and came out of the cave to me : for i had been milking my goats which i had in the enclosure just by : when he espied me he came running to me , laying himself down again upon the ground , with all the possible signs of an humble , thankful disposition , making a great many antic gestures to show it .
at last he lays his head flat upon the ground , close to my foot , and sets my other foot upon his head , as he had done before ; and after this made all the signs to me of subjection , servitude , and submission imaginable , to let me know how he would serve me so long as he lived .
i understood him in many things , and let him know i was very well pleased with him .
in a little time i began to speak to him ; and teach him to speak to me : and first , i let him know his name should be friday , which was the day i saved his life : i called him so for the memory of the time .
i likewise taught him to say master ; and then let him know that was to be my name : i likewise taught him to say yes and no and to know the meaning of them . i gave him some milk in an earthen pot , and let him see me drink it before him , and sop my bread in it ; and gave him a cake of bread to do the like , which he quickly complied with , and made signs that it was very good for him .
i kept there with him all that night ; but as soon as it was day i beckoned to him to come with me , and let him know i would give him some clothes ; at which he seemed very glad , for he was stark naked .
as we went by the place where he had buried the two men , he pointed exactly to the place , and showed me the marks that he had made to find them again , making signs to me that we should dig them up again and eat them .
at this i appeared very angry , expressed my abhorrence of it , made as if i would vomit at the thoughts of it , and beckoned with my hand to him to come away , which he did immediately , with great submission .
i then led him up to the top of the hill , to see if his enemies were gone ; and pulling out my glass i looked , and saw plainly the place where they had been , but no appearance of them or their canoes ; so that it was plain they were gone , and had left their two comrades behind them , without any search after them .
but i was not content with this discovery ; but having now more courage , and consequently more curiosity , i took my man friday with me , giving him the sword in his hand , with the bow and arrows at his back , which i found he could use very dexterously , making him carry one gun for me , and i two for myself ; and away we marched to the place where these creatures had been ; for i had a mind now to get some further intelligence of them .
when i came to the place my very blood ran chill in my veins , and my heart sunk within me , at the horror of the spectacle ; indeed , it was a dreadful sight , at least it was so to me , though friday made nothing of it .
the place was covered with human bones , the ground dyed with their blood , and great pieces of flesh left here and there , half-eaten , mangled , and scorched ; and , in short , all the tokens of the triumphant feast they had been making there , after a victory over their enemies .
i saw three skulls , five hands , and the bones of three or four legs and feet , and abundance of other parts of the bodies ; and friday , by his signs , made me understand that they brought over four prisoners to feast upon ; that three of them were eaten up , and that he , pointing to himself , was the fourth ; that there had been a great battle between them and their next king , of whose subjects , it seems , he had been one , and that they had taken a great number of prisoners ; all which were carried to several places by those who had taken them in the fight , in order to feast upon them , as was done here by these wretches upon those they brought hither .
i caused friday to gather all the skulls , bones , flesh , and whatever remained , and lay them together in a heap , and make a great fire upon it , and burn them all to ashes .
i found friday had still a hankering stomach after some of the flesh , and was still a cannibal in his nature ; but i showed so much abhorrence at the very thoughts of it , and at the least appearance of it , that he durst not discover it : for i had , by some means , let him know that i would kill him if he offered it .
when he had done this , we came back to our castle ; and there i fell to work for my man friday ; and first of all , i gave him a pair of linen drawers , which i had out of the poor gunner 's chest i mentioned , which i found in the wreck , and which , with a little alteration , fitted him very well ; and then i made him a jerkin of goat 's skin , as well as my skill would allow ( for i was now grown a tolerably good tailor ) ; and i gave him a cap which i made of hare 's skin , very convenient , and fashionable enough ; and thus he was clothed , for the present , tolerably well , and was mighty well pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as his master .
it is true he went awkwardly in these clothes at first : wearing the drawers was very awkward to him , and the sleeves of the waistcoat galled his shoulders and the inside of his arms ; but a little easing them where he complained they hurt him , and using himself to them , he took to them at length very well .
the next day , after i came home to my hutch with him , i began to consider where i should lodge him : and that i might do well for him and yet be perfectly easy myself , i made a little tent for him in the vacant place between my two fortifications , in the inside of the last , and in the outside of the first .
as there was a door or entrance there into my cave , i made a formal framed door-case , and a door to it , of boards , and set it up in the passage , a little within the entrance ; and , causing the door to open in the inside , i barred it up in the night , taking in my ladders , too ; so that friday could no way come at me in the inside of my innermost wall , without making so much noise in getting over that it must needs awaken me ; for my first wall had now a complete roof over it of long poles , covering all my tent , and leaning up to the side of the hill ; which was again laid across with smaller sticks , instead of laths , and then thatched over a great thickness with the rice-straw , which was strong , like reeds ; and at the hole or place which was left to go in or out by the ladder i had placed a kind of trap-door , which , if it had been attempted on the outside , would not have opened at all , but would have fallen down and made a great noise - as to weapons , i took them all into my side every night .
but i needed none of all this precaution ; for never man had a more faithful , loving , sincere servant than friday was to me : without passions , sullenness , or designs , perfectly obliged and engaged ; his very affections were tied to me , like those of a child to a father ; and i daresay he would have sacrificed his life to save mine upon any occasion whatsoever - the many testimonies he gave me of this put it out of doubt , and soon convinced me that i needed to use no precautions for my safety on his account .
this frequently gave me occasion to observe , and that with wonder , that however it had pleased god in his providence , and in the government of the works of his hands , to take from so great a part of the world of his creatures the best uses to which their faculties and the powers of their souls are adapted , yet that he has bestowed upon them the same powers , the same reason , the same affections , the same sentiments of kindness and obligation , the same passions and resentments of wrongs , the same sense of gratitude , sincerity , fidelity , and all the capacities of doing good and receiving good that he has given to us ; and that when he pleases to offer them occasions of exerting these , they are as ready , nay , more ready , to apply them to the right uses for which they were bestowed than we are .
this made me very melancholy sometimes , in reflecting , as the several occasions presented , how mean a use we make of all these , even though we have these powers enlightened by the great lamp of instruction , the spirit of god , and by the knowledge of his word added to our understanding ; and why it has pleased god to hide the like saving knowledge from so many millions of souls , who , if i might judge by this poor savage , would make a much better use of it than we did .
from hence i sometimes was led too far , to invade the sovereignty of providence , and , as it were , arraign the justice of so arbitrary a disposition of things , that should hide that sight from some , and reveal it to others , and yet expect a like duty from both ; but i shut it up , and checked my thoughts with this conclusion : first , that we did not know by what light and law these should be condemned ; but that as god was necessarily , and by the nature of his being , infinitely holy and just , so it could not be , but if these creatures were all sentenced to absence from himself , it was on account of sinning against that light which , as the scripture says , was a law to themselves , and by such rules as their consciences would acknowledge to be just , though the foundation was not discovered to us ; and secondly , that still as we all are the clay in the hand of the potter , no vessel could say to him , " why hast thou formed me thus ? "
but to return to my new companion .
i was greatly delighted with him , and made it my business to teach him everything that was proper to make him useful , handy , and helpful ; but especially to make him speak , and understand me when i spoke ; and he was the aptest scholar that ever was ; and particularly was so merry , so constantly diligent , and so pleased when he could but understand me , or make me understand him , that it was very pleasant for me to talk to him .
now my life began to be so easy that i began to say to myself that could i but have been safe from more savages , i cared not if i was never to remove from the place where i lived .
after i had been two or three days returned to my castle , i thought that , in order to bring friday off from his horrid way of feeding , and from the relish of a cannibal 's stomach , i ought to let him taste other flesh ; so i took him out with me one morning to the woods .
i went , indeed , intending to kill a kid out of my own flock ; and bring it home and dress it ; but as i was going i saw a she-goat lying down in the shade , and two young kids sitting by her .
i catched hold of friday .
" hold , " said i , " stand still ; " and made signs to him not to stir : immediately i presented my piece , shot , and killed one of the kids .
the poor creature , who had at a distance , indeed , seen me kill the savage , his enemy , but did not know , nor could imagine how it was done , was sensibly surprised , trembled , and shook , and looked so amazed that i thought he would have sunk down .
he did not see the kid i shot at , or perceive i had killed it , but ripped up his waistcoat to feel whether he was not wounded ; and , as i found presently , thought i was resolved to kill him : for he came and kneeled down to me , and embracing my knees , said a great many things i did not understand ; but i could easily see the meaning was to pray me not to kill him .
i soon found a way to convince him that i would do him no harm ; and taking him up by the hand , laughed at him , and pointing to the kid which i had killed , beckoned to him to run and fetch it , which he did : and while he was wondering , and looking to see how the creature was killed , i loaded my gun again .
by-and-by i saw a great fowl , like a hawk , sitting upon a tree within shot ; so , to let friday understand a little what i would do , i called him to me again , pointed at the fowl , which was indeed a parrot , though i thought it had been a hawk ; i say , pointing to the parrot , and to my gun , and to the ground under the parrot , to let him see i would make it fall , i made him understand that i would shoot and kill that bird ; accordingly , i fired , and bade him look , and immediately he saw the parrot fall .
he stood like one frightened again , notwithstanding all i had said to him ; and i found he was the more amazed , because he did not see me put anything into the gun , but thought that there must be some wonderful fund of death and destruction in that thing , able to kill man , beast , bird , or anything near or far off ; and the astonishment this created in him was such as could not wear off for a long time ; and i believe , if i would have let him , he would have worshipped me and my gun .
as for the gun itself , he would not so much as touch it for several days after ; but he would speak to it and talk to it , as if it had answered him , when he was by himself ; which , as i afterwards learned of him , was to desire it not to kill him .
well , after his astonishment was a little over at this , i pointed to him to run and fetch the bird i had shot , which he did , but stayed some time ; for the parrot , not being quite dead , had fluttered away a good distance from the place where she fell : however , he found her , took her up , and brought her to me ; and as i had perceived his ignorance about the gun before , i took this advantage to charge the gun again , and not to let him see me do it , that i might be ready for any other mark that might present ; but nothing more offered at that time : so i brought home the kid , and the same evening i took the skin off , and cut it out as well as i could ; and having a pot fit for that purpose , i boiled or stewed some of the flesh , and made some very good broth .
after i had begun to eat some i gave some to my man , who seemed very glad of it , and liked it very well ; but that which was strangest to him was to see me eat salt with it .
he made a sign to me that the salt was not good to eat ; and putting a little into his own mouth , he seemed to nauseate it , and would spit and sputter at it , washing his mouth with fresh water after it : on the other hand , i took some meat into my mouth without salt , and i pretended to spit and sputter for want of salt , as much as he had done at the salt ; but it would not do ; he would never care for salt with meat or in his broth ; at least , not for a great while , and then but a very little .
having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth , i was resolved to feast him the next day by roasting a piece of the kid : this i did by hanging it before the fire on a string , as i had seen many people do in england , setting two poles up , one on each side of the fire , and one across the top , and tying the string to the cross stick , letting the meat turn continually .
this friday admired very much ; but when he came to taste the flesh , he took so many ways to tell me how well he liked it , that i could not but understand him : and at last he told me , as well as he could , he would never eat man 's flesh any more , which i was very glad to hear .
the next day i set him to work beating some corn out , and sifting it in the manner i used to do , as i observed before ; and he soon understood how to do it as well as i , especially after he had seen what the meaning of it was , and that it was to make bread of ; for after that i let him see me make my bread , and bake it too ; and in a little time friday was able to do all the work for me as well as i could do it myself .
i began now to consider , that having two mouths to feed instead of one , i must provide more ground for my harvest , and plant a larger quantity of corn than i used to do ; so i marked out a larger piece of land , and began the fence in the same manner as before , in which friday worked not only very willingly and very hard , but did it very cheerfully : and i told him what it was for ; that it was for corn to make more bread , because he was now with me , and that i might have enough for him and myself too .
he appeared very sensible of that part , and let me know that he thought i had much more labour upon me on his account than i had for myself ; and that he would work the harder for me if i would tell him what to do .
this was the pleasantest year of all the life i led in this place .
friday began to talk pretty well , and understand the names of almost everything i had occasion to call for , and of every place i had to send him to , and talked a great deal to me ; so that , in short , i began now to have some use for my tongue again , which , indeed , i had very little occasion for before .
besides the pleasure of talking to him , i had a singular satisfaction in the fellow himself : his simple , unfeigned honesty appeared to me more and more every day , and i began really to love the creature ; and on his side i believe he loved me more than it was possible for him ever to love anything before .
i had a mind once to try if he had any inclination for his own country again ; and having taught him english so well that he could answer me almost any question , i asked him whether the nation that he belonged to never conquered in battle ?
at which he smiled , and said - " yes , yes , we always fight the better ; " that is , he meant always get the better in fight ; and so we began the following discourse : -
_ master _ . - you always fight the better ; how came you to be taken prisoner , then , friday ?
_ friday _ . - my nation beat much for all that .
_ master _ . - how beat ? if your nation beat them , how came you to be taken ?
_ friday _ . - they more many than my nation , in the place where me was ; they take one , two , three , and me : my nation over-beat them in the yonder place , where me no was ; there my nation take one , two , great thousand .
_ master _ . - but why did not your side recover you from the hands of your enemies , then ?
_ friday _ . - they run , one , two , three , and me , and make go in the canoe ; my nation have no canoe that time .
_ master _ . - well , friday , and what does your nation do with the men they take ? do they carry them away and eat them , as these did ?
_ friday _ . - yes , my nation eat mans too ; eat all up .
_ master _ . - where do they carry them ?
_ friday _ . - go to other place , where they think .
_ master _ . - do they come hither ?
_ friday _ . - yes , yes , they come hither ; come other else place .
_ master _ . - have you been here with them ?
_ friday _ . - yes , i have been here ( points to the nw. side of the island , which , it seems , was their side ) .
by this i understood that my man friday had formerly been among the savages who used to come on shore on the farther part of the island , on the same man-eating occasions he was now brought for ; and some time after , when i took the courage to carry him to that side , being the same i formerly mentioned , he presently knew the place , and told me he was there once , when they ate up twenty men , two women , and one child ; he could not tell twenty in english , but he numbered them by laying so many stones in a row , and pointing to me to tell them over .
i have told this passage , because it introduces what follows : that after this discourse i had with him , i asked him how far it was from our island to the shore , and whether the canoes were not often lost .
he told me there was no danger , no canoes ever lost : but that after a little way out to sea , there was a current and wind , always one way in the morning , the other in the afternoon .
this i understood to be no more than the sets of the tide , as going out or coming in ; but i afterwards understood it was occasioned by the great draft and reflux of the mighty river orinoco , in the mouth or gulf of which river , as i found afterwards , our island lay ; and that this land , which i perceived to be w. and nw . , was the great island trinidad , on the north point of the mouth of the river .
i asked friday a thousand questions about the country , the inhabitants , the sea , the coast , and what nations were near ; he told me all he knew with the greatest openness imaginable .
i asked him the names of the several nations of his sort of people , but could get no other name than caribs ; from whence i easily understood that these were the caribbees , which our maps place on the part of america which reaches from the mouth of the river orinoco to guiana , and onwards to st. martha .
he told me that up a great way beyond the moon , that was beyond the setting of the moon , which must be west from their country , there dwelt white bearded men , like me , and pointed to my great whiskers , which i mentioned before ; and that they had killed much mans , that was his word : by all which i understood he meant the spaniards , whose cruelties in america had been spread over the whole country , and were remembered by all the nations from father to son .
i inquired if he could tell me how i might go from this island , and get among those white men .
he told me , " yes , yes , you may go in two canoe . " i could not understand what he meant , or make him describe to me what he meant by two canoe , till at last , with great difficulty , i found he meant it must be in a large boat , as big as two canoes .
this part of friday 's discourse i began to relish very well ; and from this time i entertained some hopes that , one time or other , i might find an opportunity to make my escape from this place , and that this poor savage might be a means to help me .
during the long time that friday had now been with me , and that he began to speak to me , and understand me , i was not wanting to lay a foundation of religious knowledge in his mind ; particularly i asked him one time , who made him .
the creature did not understand me at all , but thought i had asked who was his father - but i took it up by another handle , and asked him who made the sea , the ground we walked on , and the hills and woods .
he told me , " it was one benamuckee , that lived beyond all ; " he could describe nothing of this great person , but that he was very old , " much older , " he said , " than the sea or land , than the moon or the stars . "
i asked him then , if this old person had made all things , why did not all things worship him ?
he looked very grave , and , with a perfect look of innocence , said , " all things say o to him . " i asked him if the people who die in his country went away anywhere ?
he said , " yes ; they all went to benamuckee . " then i asked him whether those they eat up went thither too .
he said , " yes . "
from these things , i began to instruct him in the knowledge of the true god ; i told him that the great maker of all things lived up there , pointing up towards heaven ; that he governed the world by the same power and providence by which he made it ; that he was omnipotent , and could do everything for us , give everything to us , take everything from us ; and thus , by degrees , i opened his eyes .
he listened with great attention , and received with pleasure the notion of jesus christ being sent to redeem us ; and of the manner of making our prayers to god , and his being able to hear us , even in heaven .
he told me one day , that if our god could hear us , up beyond the sun , he must needs be a greater god than their benamuckee , who lived but a little way off , and yet could not hear till they went up to the great mountains where he dwelt to speak to them .
i asked him if ever he went thither to speak to him .
he said , " no ; they never went that were young men ; none went thither but the old men , " whom he called their oowokakee ; that is , as i made him explain to me , their religious , or clergy ; and that they went to say o ( so he called saying prayers ) , and then came back and told them what benamuckee said .
by this i observed , that there is priestcraft even among the most blinded , ignorant pagans in the world ; and the policy of making a secret of religion , in order to preserve the veneration of the people to the clergy , not only to be found in the roman , but , perhaps , among all religions in the world , even among the most brutish and barbarous savages .
i endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man friday ; and told him that the pretence of their old men going up to the mountains to say o to their god benamuckee was a cheat ; and their bringing word from thence what he said was much more so ; that if they met with any answer , or spake with any one there , it must be with an evil spirit ; and then i entered into a long discourse with him about the devil , the origin of him , his rebellion against god , his enmity to man , the reason of it , his setting himself up in the dark parts of the world to be worshipped instead of god , and as god , and the many stratagems he made use of to delude mankind to their ruin ; how he had a secret access to our passions and to our affections , and to adapt his snares to our inclinations , so as to cause us even to be our own tempters , and run upon our destruction by our own choice .
i found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in his mind about the devil as it was about the being of a god .
nature assisted all my arguments to evidence to him even the necessity of a great first cause , an overruling , governing power , a secret directing providence , and of the equity and justice of paying homage to him that made us , and the like ; but there appeared nothing of this kind in the notion of an evil spirit , of his origin , his being , his nature , and above all , of his inclination to do evil , and to draw us in to do so too ; and the poor creature puzzled me once in such a manner , by a question merely natural and innocent , that i scarce knew what to say to him . i had been talking a great deal to him of the power of god , his omnipotence , his aversion to sin , his being a consuming fire to the workers of iniquity ; how , as he had made us all , he could destroy us and all the world in a moment ; and he listened with great seriousness to me all the while .
after this i had been telling him how the devil was god 's enemy in the hearts of men , and used all his malice and skill to defeat the good designs of providence , and to ruin the kingdom of christ in the world , and the like . " well , " says friday , " but you say god is so strong , so great ; is he not much strong , much might as the devil ? "
" yes , yes , " says i , " friday ; god is stronger than the devil - god is above the devil , and therefore we pray to god to tread him down under our feet , and enable us to resist his temptations and quench his fiery darts . " " but , " says he again , " if god much stronger , much might as the wicked devil , why god no kill the devil , so make him no more do wicked ? "
i was strangely surprised at this question ; and , after all , though i was now an old man , yet i was but a young doctor , and ill qualified for a casuist or a solver of difficulties ; and at first i could not tell what to say ; so i pretended not to hear him , and asked him what he said ; but he was too earnest for an answer to forget his question , so that he repeated it in the very same broken words as above .
by this time i had recovered myself a little , and i said , " god will at last punish him severely ; he is reserved for the judgment , and is to be cast into the bottomless pit , to dwell with everlasting fire . "
this did not satisfy friday ; but he returns upon me , repeating my words , " ' _ reserve at last _ ! ' me no understand - but why not kill the devil now ; not kill great ago ? "
" you may as well ask me , " said i , " why god does not kill you or me , when we do wicked things here that offend him - we are preserved to repent and be pardoned . "
he mused some time on this .
" well , well , " says he , mighty affectionately , " that well - so you , i , devil , all wicked , all preserve , repent , god pardon all . " here i was run down again by him to the last degree ; and it was a testimony to me , how the mere notions of nature , though they will guide reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a god , and of a worship or homage due to the supreme being of god , as the consequence of our nature , yet nothing but divine revelation can form the knowledge of jesus christ , and of redemption purchased for us ; of a mediator of the new covenant , and of an intercessor at the footstool of god 's throne ; i say , nothing but a revelation from heaven can form these in the soul ; and that , therefore , the gospel of our lord and saviour jesus christ , i mean the word of god , and the spirit of god , promised for the guide and sanctifier of his people , are the absolutely necessary instructors of the souls of men in the saving knowledge of god and the means of salvation .
i therefore diverted the present discourse between me and my man , rising up hastily , as upon some sudden occasion of going out ; then sending him for something a good way off , i seriously prayed to god that he would enable me to instruct savingly this poor savage ; assisting , by his spirit , the heart of the poor ignorant creature to receive the light of the knowledge of god in christ , reconciling him to himself , and would guide me so to speak to him from the word of god that his conscience might be convinced , his eyes opened , and his soul saved . when he came again to me , i entered into a long discourse with him upon the subject of the redemption of man by the saviour of the world , and of the doctrine of the gospel preached from heaven , viz. of repentance towards god , and faith in our blessed lord jesus .
i then explained to him as well as i could why our blessed redeemer took not on him the nature of angels but the seed of abraham ; and how , for that reason , the fallen angels had no share in the redemption ; that he came only to the lost sheep of the house of israel , and the like .
i had , god knows , more sincerity than knowledge in all the methods i took for this poor creature 's instruction , and must acknowledge , what i believe all that act upon the same principle will find , that in laying things open to him , i really informed and instructed myself in many things that either i did not know or had not fully considered before , but which occurred naturally to my mind upon searching into them , for the information of this poor savage ; and i had more affection in my inquiry after things upon this occasion than ever i felt before : so that , whether this poor wild wretch was better for me or no , i had great reason to be thankful that ever he came to me ; my grief sat lighter , upon me ; my habitation grew comfortable to me beyond measure : and when i reflected that in this solitary life which i have been confined to , i had not only been moved to look up to heaven myself , and to seek the hand that had brought me here , but was now to be made an instrument , under providence , to save the life , and , for aught i knew , the soul of a poor savage , and bring him to the true knowledge of religion and of the christian doctrine , that he might know christ jesus , in whom is life eternal ; i say , when i reflected upon all these things , a secret joy ran through every part of my soul , and i frequently rejoiced that ever i was brought to this place , which i had so often thought the most dreadful of all afflictions that could possibly have befallen me .
i continued in this thankful frame all the remainder of my time ; and the conversation which employed the hours between friday and me was such as made the three years which we lived there together perfectly and completely happy , if any such thing as complete happiness can be formed in a sublunary state .
this savage was now a good christian , a much better than i ; though i have reason to hope , and bless god for it , that we were equally penitent , and comforted , restored penitents . we had here the word of god to read , and no farther off from his spirit to instruct than if we had been in england .
i always applied myself , in reading the scripture , to let him know , as well as i could , the meaning of what i read ; and he again , by his serious inquiries and questionings , made me , as i said before , a much better scholar in the scripture knowledge than i should ever have been by my own mere private reading .
another thing i cannot refrain from observing here also , from experience in this retired part of my life , viz. how infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is that the knowledge of god , and of the doctrine of salvation by christ jesus , is so plainly laid down in the word of god , so easy to be received and understood , that , as the bare reading the scripture made me capable of understanding enough of my duty to carry me directly on to the great work of sincere repentance for my sins , and laying hold of a saviour for life and salvation , to a stated reformation in practice , and obedience to all god 's commands , and this without any teacher or instructor , i mean human ; so the same plain instruction sufficiently served to the enlightening this savage creature , and bringing him to be such a christian as i have known few equal to him in my life .
as to all the disputes , wrangling , strife , and contention which have happened in the world about religion , whether niceties in doctrines or schemes of church government , they were all perfectly useless to us , and , for aught i can yet see , they have been so to the rest of the world .
we had the sure guide to heaven , viz. the word of god ; and we had , blessed be god , comfortable views of the spirit of god teaching and instructing by his word , leading us into all truth , and making us both willing and obedient to the instruction of his word .
and i cannot see the least use that the greatest knowledge of the disputed points of religion , which have made such confusion in the world , would have been to us , if we could have obtained it . but i must go on with the historical part of things , and take every part in its order .
after friday and i became more intimately acquainted , and that he could understand almost all i said to him , and speak pretty fluently , though in broken english , to me , i acquainted him with my own history , or at least so much of it as related to my coming to this place : how i had lived there , and how long ; i let him into the mystery , for such it was to him , of gunpowder and bullet , and taught him how to shoot .
i gave him a knife , which he was wonderfully delighted with ; and i made him a belt , with a frog hanging to it , such as in england we wear hangers in ; and in the frog , instead of a hanger , i gave him a hatchet , which was not only as good a weapon in some cases , but much more useful upon other occasions .
i described to him the country of europe , particularly england , which i came from ; how we lived , how we worshipped god , how we behaved to one another , and how we traded in ships to all parts of the world .
i gave him an account of the wreck which i had been on board of , and showed him , as near as i could , the place where she lay ; but she was all beaten in pieces before , and gone .
i showed him the ruins of our boat , which we lost when we escaped , and which i could not stir with my whole strength then ; but was now fallen almost all to pieces .
upon seeing this boat , friday stood , musing a great while , and said nothing .
i asked him what it was he studied upon . at last says he , " me see such boat like come to place at my nation . "
i did not understand him a good while ; but at last , when i had examined further into it , i understood by him that a boat , such as that had been , came on shore upon the country where he lived : that is , as he explained it , was driven thither by stress of weather .
i presently imagined that some european ship must have been cast away upon their coast , and the boat might get loose and drive ashore ; but was so dull that i never once thought of men making their escape from a wreck thither , much less whence they might come : so i only inquired after a description of the boat .
friday described the boat to me well enough ; but brought me better to understand him when he added with some warmth , " we save the white mans from drown . " then i presently asked if there were any white mans , as he called them , in the boat . " yes , " he said ; " the boat full of white mans . " i asked him how many . he told upon his fingers seventeen . i asked him then what became of them . he told me , " they live , they dwell at my nation . "
this put new thoughts into my head ; for i presently imagined that these might be the men belonging to the ship that was cast away in the sight of my island , as i now called it ; and who , after the ship was struck on the rock , and they saw her inevitably lost , had saved themselves in their boat , and were landed upon that wild shore among the savages .
upon this i inquired of him more critically what was become of them .
he assured me they lived still there ; that they had been there about four years ; that the savages left them alone , and gave them victuals to live on .
i asked him how it came to pass they did not kill them and eat them . he said , " no , they make brother with them ; " that is , as i understood him , a truce ; and then he added , " they no eat mans but when make the war fight ; " that is to say , they never eat any men but such as come to fight with them and are taken in battle .
it was after this some considerable time , that being upon the top of the hill at the east side of the island , from whence , as i have said , i had , in a clear day , discovered the main or continent of america , friday , the weather being very serene , looks very earnestly towards the mainland , and , in a kind of surprise , falls a jumping and dancing , and calls out to me , for i was at some distance from him .
i asked him what was the matter . " oh , joy ! " says he ; " oh , glad ! there see my country , there my nation ! "
i observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared in his face , and his eyes sparkled , and his countenance discovered a strange eagerness , as if he had a mind to be in his own country again .
this observation of mine put a great many thoughts into me , which made me at first not so easy about my new man friday as i was before ; and i made no doubt but that , if friday could get back to his own nation again , he would not only forget all his religion but all his obligation to me , and would be forward enough to give his countrymen an account of me , and come back , perhaps with a hundred or two of them , and make a feast upon me , at which he might be as merry as he used to be with those of his enemies when they were taken in war .
but i wronged the poor honest creature very much , for which i was very sorry afterwards .
however , as my jealousy increased , and held some weeks , i was a little more circumspect , and not so familiar and kind to him as before : in which i was certainly wrong too ; the honest , grateful creature having no thought about it but what consisted with the best principles , both as a religious christian and as a grateful friend , as appeared afterwards to my full satisfaction .
while my jealousy of him lasted , you may be sure i was every day pumping him to see if he would discover any of the new thoughts which i suspected were in him ; but i found everything he said was so honest and so innocent , that i could find nothing to nourish my suspicion ; and in spite of all my uneasiness , he made me at last entirely his own again ; nor did he in the least perceive that i was uneasy , and therefore i could not suspect him of deceit .
one day , walking up the same hill , but the weather being hazy at sea , so that we could not see the continent , i called to him , and said , " friday , do not you wish yourself in your own country , your own nation ? " " yes , " he said , " i be much o glad to be at my own nation . "
" what would you do there ? " said i. " would you turn wild again , eat men 's flesh again , and be a savage as you were before ? "
he looked full of concern , and shaking his head , said , " no , no , friday tell them to live good ; tell them to pray god ; tell them to eat corn-bread , cattle flesh , milk ; no eat man again . " " why , then , " said i to him , " they will kill you . "
he looked grave at that , and then said , " no , no , they no kill me , they willing love learn . " he meant by this , they would be willing to learn .
he added , they learned much of the bearded mans that came in the boat . then i asked him if he would go back to them .
" no , no , " says he , " me make they no eat you ; me make they much love you . " he meant , he would tell them how i had killed his enemies , and saved his life , and so he would make them love me .
then he told me , as well as he could , how kind they were to seventeen white men , or bearded men , as he called them who came on shore there in distress . from this time , i confess , i had a mind to venture over , and see if i could possibly join with those bearded men , who i made no doubt were spaniards and portuguese ; not doubting but , if i could , we might find some method to escape from thence , being upon the continent , and a good company together , better than i could from an island forty miles off the shore , alone and without help .
so , after some days , i took friday to work again by way of discourse , and told him i would give him a boat to go back to his own nation ; and , accordingly , i carried him to my frigate , which lay on the other side of the island , and having cleared it of water ( for i always kept it sunk in water ) , i brought it out , showed it him , and we both went into it . i found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing it , and would make it go almost as swift again as i could .
so when he was in , i said to him , " well , now , friday , shall we go to your nation ? " he looked very dull at my saying so ; which it seems was because he thought the boat was too small to go so far .
i then told him i had a bigger ; so the next day i went to the place where the first boat lay which i had made , but which i could not get into the water .
he said that was big enough ; but then , as i had taken no care of it , and it had lain two or three and twenty years there , the sun had so split and dried it , that it was rotten .
friday told me such a boat would do very well , and would carry " much enough vittle , drink , bread ; " this was his way of talking .
upon the whole , i was by this time so fixed upon my design of going over with him to the continent that i told him we would go and make one as big as that , and he should go home in it . he answered not one word , but looked very grave and sad . i asked him what was the matter with him . he asked me again , " why you angry mad with friday ? - what me done ? " i asked him what he meant . i told him i was not angry with him at all . " no angry ! " says he , repeating the words several times ; " why send friday home away to my nation ? " " why , " says i , " friday , did not you say you wished you were there ? " " yes , yes , " says he , " wish we both there ; no wish friday there , no master there . " in a word , he would not think of going there without me . " i go there , friday ? " says i ; " what shall i do there ? " he turned very quick upon me at this . " you do great deal much good , " says he ; " you teach wild mans be good , sober , tame mans ; you tell them know god , pray god , and live new life . " " alas , friday ! " says i , " thou knowest not what thou sayest ; i am but an ignorant man myself . " " yes , yes , " says he , " you teachee me good , you teachee them good . " " no , no , friday , " says i , " you shall go without me ; leave me here to live by myself , as i did before . " he looked confused again at that word ; and running to one of the hatchets which he used to wear , he takes it up hastily , and gives it to me . " what must i do with this ? " says i to him . " you take kill friday , " says he . " what must kill you for ? " said i again . he returns very quick - " what you send friday away for ? take kill friday , no send friday away . " this he spoke so earnestly that i saw tears stand in his eyes . in a word , i so plainly discovered the utmost affection in him to me , and a firm resolution in him , that i told him then and often after , that i would never send him away from me if he was willing to stay with me .
upon the whole , as i found by all his discourse a settled affection to me , and that nothing could part him from me , so i found all the foundation of his desire to go to his own country was laid in his ardent affection to the people , and his hopes of my doing them good ; a thing which , as i had no notion of myself , so i had not the least thought or intention , or desire of undertaking it .
but still i found a strong inclination to attempting my escape , founded on the supposition gathered from the discourse , that there were seventeen bearded men there ; and therefore , without any more delay , i went to work with friday to find out a great tree proper to fell , and make a large periagua , or canoe , to undertake the voyage .
there were trees enough in the island to have built a little fleet , not of periaguas or canoes , but even of good , large vessels ; but the main thing i looked at was , to get one so near the water that we might launch it when it was made , to avoid the mistake i committed at first .
at last friday pitched upon a tree ; for i found he knew much better than i what kind of wood was fittest for it ; nor can i tell to this day what wood to call the tree we cut down , except that it was very like the tree we call fustic , or between that and the nicaragua wood , for it was much of the same colour and smell .
friday wished to burn the hollow or cavity of this tree out , to make it for a boat , but i showed him how to cut it with tools ; which , after i had showed him how to use , he did very handily ; and in about a month 's hard labour we finished it and made it very handsome ; especially when , with our axes , which i showed him how to handle , we cut and hewed the outside into the true shape of a boat .
after this , however , it cost us near a fortnight 's time to get her along , as it were inch by inch , upon great rollers into the water ; but when she was in , she would have carried twenty men with great ease .
when she was in the water , though she was so big , it amazed me to see with what dexterity and how swift my man friday could manage her , turn her , and paddle her along . so i asked him if he would , and if we might venture over in her .
" yes , " he said , " we venture over in her very well , though great blow wind . " however i had a further design that he knew nothing of , and that was , to make a mast and a sail , and to fit her with an anchor and cable .
as to a mast , that was easy enough to get ; so i pitched upon a straight young cedar-tree , which i found near the place , and which there were great plenty of in the island , and i set friday to work to cut it down , and gave him directions how to shape and order it .
but as to the sail , that was my particular care .
i knew i had old sails , or rather pieces of old sails , enough ; but as i had had them now six-and-twenty years by me , and had not been very careful to preserve them , not imagining that i should ever have this kind of use for them , i did not doubt but they were all rotten ; and , indeed , most of them were so .
however , i found two pieces which appeared pretty good , and with these i went to work ; and with a great deal of pains , and awkward stitching , you may be sure , for want of needles , i at length made a three-cornered ugly thing , like what we call in england a shoulder-of-mutton sail , to go with a boom at bottom , and a little short sprit at the top , such as usually our ships ' long-boats sail with , and such as i best knew how to manage , as it was such a one as i had to the boat in which i made my escape from barbary , as related in the first part of my story .
i was near two months performing this last work , viz. rigging and fitting my masts and sails ; for i finished them very complete , making a small stay , and a sail , or foresail , to it , to assist if we should turn to windward ; and , what was more than all , i fixed a rudder to the stern of her to steer with .
i was but a bungling shipwright , yet as i knew the usefulness and even necessity of such a thing , i applied myself with so much pains to do it , that at last i brought it to pass ; though , considering the many dull contrivances i had for it that failed , i think it cost me almost as much labour as making the boat .
after all this was done , i had my man friday to teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my boat ; though he knew very well how to paddle a canoe , he knew nothing of what belonged to a sail and a rudder ; and was the most amazed when he saw me work the boat to and again in the sea by the rudder , and how the sail jibed , and filled this way or that way as the course we sailed changed ; i say when he saw this he stood like one astonished and amazed .
however , with a little use , i made all these things familiar to him , and he became an expert sailor , except that of the compass i could make him understand very little .
on the other hand , as there was very little cloudy weather , and seldom or never any fogs in those parts , there was the less occasion for a compass , seeing the stars were always to be seen by night , and the shore by day , except in the rainy seasons , and then nobody cared to stir abroad either by land or sea .
i was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year of my captivity in this place ; though the three last years that i had this creature with me ought rather to be left out of the account , my habitation being quite of another kind than in all the rest of the time .
i kept the anniversary of my landing here with the same thankfulness to god for his mercies as at first : and if i had such cause of acknowledgment at first , i had much more so now , having such additional testimonies of the care of providence over me , and the great hopes i had of being effectually and speedily delivered ; for i had an invincible impression upon my thoughts that my deliverance was at hand , and that i should not be another year in this place .
i went on , however , with my husbandry ; digging , planting , and fencing as usual . i gathered and cured my grapes , and did every necessary thing as before .
the rainy season was in the meantime upon me , when i kept more within doors than at other times .
we had stowed our new vessel as secure as we could , bringing her up into the creek , where , as i said in the beginning , i landed my rafts from the ship ; and hauling her up to the shore at high-water mark , i made my man friday dig a little dock , just big enough to hold her , and just deep enough to give her water enough to float in ; and then , when the tide was out , we made a strong dam across the end of it , to keep the water out ; and so she lay , dry as to the tide from the sea : and to keep the rain off we laid a great many boughs of trees , so thick that she was as well thatched as a house ; and thus we waited for the months of november and december , in which i designed to make my adventure .
when the settled season began to come in , as the thought of my design returned with the fair weather , i was preparing daily for the voyage .
and the first thing i did was to lay by a certain quantity of provisions , being the stores for our voyage ; and intended in a week or a fortnight 's time to open the dock , and launch out our boat . i was busy one morning upon something of this kind , when i called to friday , and bid him to go to the sea-shore and see if he could find a turtle or a tortoise , a thing which we generally got once a week , for the sake of the eggs as well as the flesh .
friday had not been long gone when he came running back , and flew over my outer wall or fence , like one that felt not the ground or the steps he set his foot on ; and before i had time to speak to him he cries out to me , " o master ! o master !
o bad ! " - " what 's the matter , friday ? " says i. " o yonder there , " says he , " one , two , three canoes ; one , two , three ! "
by this way of speaking i concluded there were six ; but on inquiry i found there were but three . " well , friday , " says i , " do not be frightened . "
so i heartened him up as well as i could .
however , i saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared , for nothing ran in his head but that they were come to look for him , and would cut him in pieces and eat him ; and the poor fellow trembled so that i scarcely knew what to do with him . i comforted him as well as i could , and told him i was in as much danger as he , and that they would eat me as well as him .
can you fight , friday ? " " me shoot , " says he , " but there come many great number . "
" no matter for that , " said i again ; " our guns will fright them that we do not kill . " so i asked him whether , if i resolved to defend him , he would defend me , and stand by me , and do just as i bid him .
so i went and fetched a good dram of rum and gave him ; for i had been so good a husband of my rum that i had a great deal left . when we had drunk it , i made him take the two fowling-pieces , which we always carried , and loaded them with large swan-shot , as big as small pistol-bullets .
then i took four muskets , and loaded them with two slugs and five small bullets each ; and my two pistols i loaded with a brace of bullets each .
i hung my great sword , as usual , naked by my side , and gave friday his hatchet . when i had thus prepared myself , i took my perspective glass , and went up to the side of the hill , to see what i could discover ; and i found quickly by my glass that there were one-and-twenty savages , three prisoners , and three canoes ; and that their whole business seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon these three human bodies : a barbarous feast , indeed ! but nothing more than , as i had observed , was usual with them .
i observed also that they had landed , not where they had done when friday made his escape , but nearer to my creek , where the shore was low , and where a thick wood came almost close down to the sea .
this , with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretches came about , filled me with such indignation that i came down again to friday , and told him i was resolved to go down to them and kill them all ; and asked him if he would stand by me .
he had now got over his fright , and his spirits being a little raised with the dram i had given him , he was very cheerful , and told me , as before , he would die when i bid die .
in this fit of fury i divided the arms which i had charged , as before , between us ; i gave friday one pistol to stick in his girdle , and three guns upon his shoulder , and i took one pistol and the other three guns myself ; and in this posture we marched out .
i took a small bottle of rum in my pocket , and gave friday a large bag with more powder and bullets ; and as to orders , i charged him to keep close behind me , and not to stir , or shoot , or do anything till i bid him , and in the meantime not to speak a word .
in this posture i fetched a compass to my right hand of near a mile , as well to get over the creek as to get into the wood , so that i could come within shot of them before i should be discovered , which i had seen by my glass it was easy to do .
while i was making this march , my former thoughts returning , i began to abate my resolution : i do not mean that i entertained any fear of their number , for as they were naked , unarmed wretches , it is certain i was superior to them - nay , though i had been alone .
but it occurred to my thoughts , what call , what occasion , much less what necessity i was in to go and dip my hands in blood , to attack people who had neither done or intended me any wrong ? who , as to me , were innocent , and whose barbarous customs were their own disaster , being in them a token , indeed , of god 's having left them , with the other nations of that part of the world , to such stupidity , and to such inhuman courses , but did not call me to take upon me to be a judge of their actions , much less an executioner of his justice - that whenever he thought fit he would take the cause into his own hands , and by national vengeance punish them as a people for national crimes , but that , in the meantime , it was none of my business - that it was true friday might justify it , because he was a declared enemy and in a state of war with those very particular people , and it was lawful for him to attack them - but i could not say the same with regard to myself .
these things were so warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the way as i went , that i resolved i would only go and place myself near them that i might observe their barbarous feast , and that i would act then as god should direct ; but that unless something offered that was more a call to me than yet i knew of , i would not meddle with them .
with this resolution i entered the wood , and , with all possible wariness and silence , friday following close at my heels , i marched till i came to the skirts of the wood on the side which was next to them , only that one corner of the wood lay between me and them .
here i called softly to friday , and showing him a great tree which was just at the corner of the wood , i bade him go to the tree , and bring me word if he could see there plainly what they were doing .
he did so , and came immediately back to me , and told me they might be plainly viewed there - that they were all about their fire , eating the flesh of one of their prisoners , and that another lay bound upon the sand a little from them , whom he said they would kill next ; and this fired the very soul within me .
he told me it was not one of their nation , but one of the bearded men he had told me of , that came to their country in the boat .
i was filled with horror at the very naming of the white bearded man ; and going to the tree , i saw plainly by my glass a white man , who lay upon the beach of the sea with his hands and his feet tied with flags , or things like rushes , and that he was an european , and had clothes on .
there was another tree and a little thicket beyond it , about fifty yards nearer to them than the place where i was , which , by going a little way about , i saw i might come at undiscovered , and that then i should be within half a shot of them ; so i withheld my passion , though i was indeed enraged to the highest degree ; and going back about twenty paces , i got behind some bushes , which held all the way till i came to the other tree , and then came to a little rising ground , which gave me a full view of them at the distance of about eighty yards .
i had now not a moment to lose , for nineteen of the dreadful wretches sat upon the ground , all close huddled together , and had just sent the other two to butcher the poor christian , and bring him perhaps limb by limb to their fire , and they were stooping down to untie the bands at his feet . i turned to friday . " now , friday , " said i , " do as i bid thee . " friday said he would . " then , friday , " says i , " do exactly as you see me do ; fail in nothing . " so i set down one of the muskets and the fowling-piece upon the ground , and friday did the like by his , and with the other musket i took my aim at the savages , bidding him to do the like ; then asking him if he was ready , he said , " yes . " " then fire at them , " said i ; and at the same moment i fired also .
friday took his aim so much better than i , that on the side that he shot he killed two of them , and wounded three more ; and on my side i killed one , and wounded two .
they were , you may be sure , in a dreadful consternation : and all of them that were not hurt jumped upon their feet , but did not immediately know which way to run , or which way to look , for they knew not from whence their destruction came .
friday kept his eyes close upon me , that , as i had bid him , he might observe what i did ; so , as soon as the first shot was made , i threw down the piece , and took up the fowling-piece , and friday did the like ; he saw me cock and present ; he did the same again .
" are you ready , friday ? " said i. " yes , " says he .
" let fly , then , " says i , " in the name of god ! " and with that i fired again among the amazed wretches , and so did friday ; and as our pieces were now loaded with what i call swan-shot , or small pistol-bullets , we found only two drop ; but so many were wounded that they ran about yelling and screaming like mad creatures , all bloody , and most of them miserably wounded ; whereof three more fell quickly after , though not quite dead .
" now , friday , " says i , laying down the discharged pieces , and taking up the musket which was yet loaded , " follow me , " which he did with a great deal of courage ; upon which i rushed out of the wood and showed myself , and friday close at my foot .
as soon as i perceived they saw me , i shouted as loud as i could , and bade friday do so too , and running as fast as i could , which , by the way , was not very fast , being loaded with arms as i was , i made directly towards the poor victim , who was , as i said , lying upon the beach or shore , between the place where they sat and the sea .
the two butchers who were just going to work with him had left him at the surprise of our first fire , and fled in a terrible fright to the seaside , and had jumped into a canoe , and three more of the rest made the same way .
i turned to friday , and bade him step forwards and fire at them ; he understood me immediately , and running about forty yards , to be nearer them , he shot at them ; and i thought he had killed them all , for i saw them all fall of a heap into the boat , though i saw two of them up again quickly ; however , he killed two of them , and wounded the third , so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat as if he had been dead .
while my man friday fired at them , i pulled out my knife and cut the flags that bound the poor victim ; and loosing his hands and feet , i lifted him up , and asked him in the portuguese tongue what he was .
he answered in latin , christianus ; but was so weak and faint that he could scarce stand or speak .
i took my bottle out of my pocket and gave it him , making signs that he should drink , which he did ; and i gave him a piece of bread , which he ate .
then i asked him what countryman he was : and he said , espagniole ; and being a little recovered , let me know , by all the signs he could possibly make , how much he was in my debt for his deliverance . " seignior , " said i , with as much spanish as i could make up , " we will talk afterwards , but we must fight now : if you have any strength left , take this pistol and sword , and lay about you . "
he took them very thankfully ; and no sooner had he the arms in his hands , but , as if they had put new vigour into him , he flew upon his murderers like a fury , and had cut two of them in pieces in an instant ; for the truth is , as the whole was a surprise to them , so the poor creatures were so much frightened with the noise of our pieces that they fell down for mere amazement and fear , and had no more power to attempt their own escape than their flesh had to resist our shot ; and that was the case of those five that friday shot at in the boat ; for as three of them fell with the hurt they received , so the other two fell with the fright .
i kept my piece in my hand still without firing , being willing to keep my charge ready , because i had given the spaniard my pistol and sword : so i called to friday , and bade him run up to the tree from whence we first fired , and fetch the arms which lay there that had been discharged , which he did with great swiftness ; and then giving him my musket , i sat down myself to load all the rest again , and bade them come to me when they wanted .
while i was loading these pieces , there happened a fierce engagement between the spaniard and one of the savages , who made at him with one of their great wooden swords , the weapon that was to have killed him before , if i had not prevented it .
the spaniard , who was as bold and brave as could be imagined , though weak , had fought the indian a good while , and had cut two great wounds on his head ; but the savage being a stout , lusty fellow , closing in with him , had thrown him down , being faint , and was wringing my sword out of his hand ; when the spaniard , though undermost , wisely quitting the sword , drew the pistol from his girdle , shot the savage through the body , and killed him upon the spot , before i , who was running to help him , could come near him .
friday , being now left to his liberty , pursued the flying wretches , with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet : and with that he despatched those three who as i said before , were wounded at first , and fallen , and all the rest he could come up with : and the spaniard coming to me for a gun , i gave him one of the fowling-pieces , with which he pursued two of the savages , and wounded them both ; but as he was not able to run , they both got from him into the wood , where friday pursued them , and killed one of them , but the other was too nimble for him ; and though he was wounded , yet had plunged himself into the sea , and swam with all his might off to those two who were left in the canoe ; which three in the canoe , with one wounded , that we knew not whether he died or no , were all that escaped our hands of one-and-twenty .
the account of the whole is as follows : three killed at our first shot from the tree ; two killed at the next shot ; two killed by friday in the boat ; two killed by friday of those at first wounded ; one killed by friday in the wood ; three killed by the spaniard ; four killed , being found dropped here and there , of the wounds , or killed by friday in his chase of them ; four escaped in the boat , whereof one wounded , if not dead - twenty-one in all .
those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of gun-shot , and though friday made two or three shots at them , i did not find that he hit any of them .
friday would fain have had me take one of their canoes , and pursue them ; and indeed i was very anxious about their escape , lest , carrying the news home to their people , they should come back perhaps with two or three hundred of the canoes and devour us by mere multitude ; so i consented to pursue them by sea , and running to one of their canoes , i jumped in and bade friday follow me : but when i was in the canoe i was surprised to find another poor creature lie there , bound hand and foot , as the spaniard was , for the slaughter , and almost dead with fear , not knowing what was the matter ; for he had not been able to look up over the side of the boat , he was tied so hard neck and heels , and had been tied so long that he had really but little life in him .
i immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes which they had bound him with , and would have helped him up ; but he could not stand or speak , but groaned most piteously , believing , it seems , still , that he was only unbound in order to be killed .
when friday came to him i bade him speak to him , and tell him of his deliverance ; and pulling out my bottle , made him give the poor wretch a dram , which , with the news of his being delivered , revived him , and he sat up in the boat .
but when friday came to hear him speak , and look in his face , it would have moved any one to tears to have seen how friday kissed him , embraced him , hugged him , cried , laughed , hallooed , jumped about , danced , sang ; then cried again , wrung his hands , beat his own face and head ; and then sang and jumped about again like a distracted creature .
it was a good while before i could make him speak to me or tell me what was the matter ; but when he came a little to himself he told me that it was his father .
it is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see what ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this poor savage at the sight of his father , and of his being delivered from death ; nor indeed can i describe half the extravagances of his affection after this : for he went into the boat and out of the boat a great many times : when he went in to him he would sit down by him , open his breast , and hold his father 's head close to his bosom for many minutes together , to nourish it ; then he took his arms and ankles , which were numbed and stiff with the binding , and chafed and rubbed them with his hands ; and i , perceiving what the case was , gave him some rum out of my bottle to rub them with , which did them a great deal of good .
this affair put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the other savages , who were now almost out of sight ; and it was happy for us that we did not , for it blew so hard within two hours after , and before they could be got a quarter of their way , and continued blowing so hard all night , and that from the north-west , which was against them , that i could not suppose their boat could live , or that they ever reached their own coast .
but to return to friday ; he was so busy about his father that i could not find in my heart to take him off for some time ; but after i thought he could leave him a little , i called him to me , and he came jumping and laughing , and pleased to the highest extreme : then i asked him if he had given his father any bread .
he shook his head , and said , " none ; ugly dog eat all up self . "
i then gave him a cake of bread out of a little pouch i carried on purpose ; i also gave him a dram for himself ; but he would not taste it , but carried it to his father .
i had in my pocket two or three bunches of raisins , so i gave him a handful of them for his father .
he had no sooner given his father these raisins but i saw him come out of the boat , and run away as if he had been bewitched , for he was the swiftest fellow on his feet that ever i saw : i say , he ran at such a rate that he was out of sight , as it were , in an instant ; and though i called , and hallooed out too after him , it was all one - away he went ; and in a quarter of an hour i saw him come back again , though not so fast as he went ; and as he came nearer i found his pace slacker , because he had something in his hand .
when he came up to me i found he had been quite home for an earthen jug or pot , to bring his father some fresh water , and that he had got two more cakes or loaves of bread : the bread he gave me , but the water he carried to his father ; however , as i was very thirsty too , i took a little of it .
the water revived his father more than all the rum or spirits i had given him , for he was fainting with thirst .
when his father had drunk , i called to him to know if there was any water left .
he said , " yes " ; and i bade him give it to the poor spaniard , who was in as much want of it as his father ; and i sent one of the cakes that friday brought to the spaniard too , who was indeed very weak , and was reposing himself upon a green place under the shade of a tree ; and whose limbs were also very stiff , and very much swelled with the rude bandage he had been tied with .
when i saw that upon friday 's coming to him with the water he sat up and drank , and took the bread and began to eat , i went to him and gave him a handful of raisins .
he looked up in my face with all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that could appear in any countenance ; but was so weak , notwithstanding he had so exerted himself in the fight , that he could not stand up upon his feet - he tried to do it two or three times , but was really not able , his ankles were so swelled and so painful to him ; so i bade him sit still , and caused friday to rub his ankles , and bathe them with rum , as he had done his father 's .
i observed the poor affectionate creature , every two minutes , or perhaps less , all the while he was here , turn his head about to see if his father was in the same place and posture as he left him sitting ; and at last he found he was not to be seen ; at which he started up , and , without speaking a word , flew with that swiftness to him that one could scarce perceive his feet to touch the ground as he went ; but when he came , he only found he had laid himself down to ease his limbs , so friday came back to me presently ; and then i spoke to the spaniard to let friday help him up if he could , and lead him to the boat , and then he should carry him to our dwelling , where i would take care of him .
but friday , a lusty , strong fellow , took the spaniard upon his back , and carried him away to the boat , and set him down softly upon the side or gunnel of the canoe , with his feet in the inside of it ; and then lifting him quite in , he set him close to his father ; and presently stepping out again , launched the boat off , and paddled it along the shore faster than i could walk , though the wind blew pretty hard too ; so he brought them both safe into our creek , and leaving them in the boat , ran away to fetch the other canoe .
as he passed me i spoke to him , and asked him whither he went .
he told me , " go fetch more boat ; " so away he went like the wind , for sure never man or horse ran like him ; and he had the other canoe in the creek almost as soon as i got to it by land ; so he wafted me over , and then went to help our new guests out of the boat , which he did ; but they were neither of them able to walk ; so that poor friday knew not what to do .
to remedy this , i went to work in my thought , and calling to friday to bid them sit down on the bank while he came to me , i soon made a kind of hand-barrow to lay them on , and friday and i carried them both up together upon it between us .
but when we got them to the outside of our wall , or fortification , we were at a worse loss than before , for it was impossible to get them over , and i was resolved not to break it down ; so i set to work again , and friday and i , in about two hours ' time , made a very handsome tent , covered with old sails , and above that with boughs of trees , being in the space without our outward fence and between that and the grove of young wood which i had planted ; and here we made them two beds of such things as i had - viz. of good rice-straw , with blankets laid upon it to lie on , and another to cover them , on each bed .
my island was now peopled , and i thought myself very rich in subjects ; and it was a merry reflection , which i frequently made , how like a king i looked .
first of all , the whole country was my own property , so that i had an undoubted right of dominion . secondly , my people were perfectly subjected - i was absolutely lord and lawgiver - they all owed their lives to me , and were ready to lay down their lives , if there had been occasion for it , for me .
it was remarkable , too , i had but three subjects , and they were of three different religions - my man friday was a protestant , his father was a pagan and a cannibal , and the spaniard was a papist .
however , i allowed liberty of conscience throughout my dominions . but this is by the way .
as soon as i had secured my two weak , rescued prisoners , and given them shelter , and a place to rest them upon , i began to think of making some provision for them ; and the first thing i did , i ordered friday to take a yearling goat , betwixt a kid and a goat , out of my particular flock , to be killed ; when i cut off the hinder-quarter , and chopping it into small pieces , i set friday to work to boiling and stewing , and made them a very good dish , i assure you , of flesh and broth ; and as i cooked it without doors , for i made no fire within my inner wall , so i carried it all into the new tent , and having set a table there for them , i sat down , and ate my own dinner also with them , and , as well as i could , cheered them and encouraged them .
friday was my interpreter , especially to his father , and , indeed , to the spaniard too ; for the spaniard spoke the language of the savages pretty well .
after we had dined , or rather supped , i ordered friday to take one of the canoes , and go and fetch our muskets and other firearms , which , for want of time , we had left upon the place of battle ; and the next day i ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of the savages , which lay open to the sun , and would presently be offensive .
i also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their barbarous feast , which i could not think of doing myself ; nay , i could not bear to see them if i went that way ; all which he punctually performed , and effaced the very appearance of the savages being there ; so that when i went again , i could scarce know where it was , otherwise than by the corner of the wood pointing to the place .
i then began to enter into a little conversation with my two new subjects ; and , first , i set friday to inquire of his father what he thought of the escape of the savages in that canoe , and whether we might expect a return of them , with a power too great for us to resist .
his first opinion was , that the savages in the boat never could live out the storm which blew that night they went off , but must of necessity be drowned , or driven south to those other shores , where they were as sure to be devoured as they were to be drowned if they were cast away ; but , as to what they would do if they came safe on shore , he said he knew not ; but it was his opinion that they were so dreadfully frightened with the manner of their being attacked , the noise , and the fire , that he believed they would tell the people they were all killed by thunder and lightning , not by the hand of man ; and that the two which appeared - viz . friday and i - were two heavenly spirits , or furies , come down to destroy them , and not men with weapons .
this , he said , he knew ; because he heard them all cry out so , in their language , one to another ; for it was impossible for them to conceive that a man could dart fire , and speak thunder , and kill at a distance , without lifting up the hand , as was done now : and this old savage was in the right ; for , as i understood since , by other hands , the savages never attempted to go over to the island afterwards , they were so terrified with the accounts given by those four men ( for it seems they did escape the sea ) , that they believed whoever went to that enchanted island would be destroyed with fire from the gods .
this , however , i knew not ; and therefore was under continual apprehensions for a good while , and kept always upon my guard , with all my army : for , as there were now four of us , i would have ventured upon a hundred of them , fairly in the open field , at any time .
in a little time , however , no more canoes appearing , the fear of their coming wore off ; and i began to take my former thoughts of a voyage to the main into consideration ; being likewise assured by friday 's father that i might depend upon good usage from their nation , on his account , if i would go .
but my thoughts were a little suspended when i had a serious discourse with the spaniard , and when i understood that there were sixteen more of his countrymen and portuguese , who having been cast away and made their escape to that side , lived there at peace , indeed , with the savages , but were very sore put to it for necessaries , and , indeed , for life .
i asked him all the particulars of their voyage , and found they were a spanish ship , bound from the rio de la plata to the havanna , being directed to leave their loading there , which was chiefly hides and silver , and to bring back what european goods they could meet with there ; that they had five portuguese seamen on board , whom they took out of another wreck ; that five of their own men were drowned when first the ship was lost , and that these escaped through infinite dangers and hazards , and arrived , almost starved , on the cannibal coast , where they expected to have been devoured every moment .
he told me they had some arms with them , but they were perfectly useless , for that they had neither powder nor ball , the washing of the sea having spoiled all their powder but a little , which they used at their first landing to provide themselves with some food .
i asked him what he thought would become of them there , and if they had formed any design of making their escape . he said they had many consultations about it ; but that having neither vessel nor tools to build one , nor provisions of any kind , their councils always ended in tears and despair .
i asked him how he thought they would receive a proposal from me , which might tend towards an escape ; and whether , if they were all here , it might not be done . i told him with freedom , i feared mostly their treachery and ill-usage of me , if i put my life in their hands ; for that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature of man , nor did men always square their dealings by the obligations they had received so much as they did by the advantages they expected .
i told him it would be very hard that i should be made the instrument of their deliverance , and that they should afterwards make me their prisoner in new spain , where an englishman was certain to be made a sacrifice , what necessity or what accident soever brought him thither ; and that i had rather be delivered up to the savages , and be devoured alive , than fall into the merciless claws of the priests , and be carried into the inquisition . i added that , otherwise , i was persuaded , if they were all here , we might , with so many hands , build a barque large enough to carry us all away , either to the brazils southward , or to the islands or spanish coast northward ; but that if , in requital , they should , when i had put weapons into their hands , carry me by force among their own people , i might be ill-used for my kindness to them , and make my case worse than it was before .
he answered , with a great deal of candour and ingenuousness , that their condition was so miserable , and that they were so sensible of it , that he believed they would abhor the thought of using any man unkindly that should contribute to their deliverance ; and that , if i pleased , he would go to them with the old man , and discourse with them about it , and return again and bring me their answer ; that he would make conditions with them upon their solemn oath , that they should be absolutely under my direction as their commander and captain ; and they should swear upon the holy sacraments and gospel to be true to me , and go to such christian country as i should agree to , and no other ; and to be directed wholly and absolutely by my orders till they were landed safely in such country as i intended , and that he would bring a contract from them , under their hands , for that purpose .
then he told me he would first swear to me himself that he would never stir from me as long as he lived till i gave him orders ; and that he would take my side to the last drop of his blood , if there should happen the least breach of faith among his countrymen .
he told me they were all of them very civil , honest men , and they were under the greatest distress imaginable , having neither weapons nor clothes , nor any food , but at the mercy and discretion of the savages ; out of all hopes of ever returning to their own country ; and that he was sure , if i would undertake their relief , they would live and die by me .
upon these assurances , i resolved to venture to relieve them , if possible , and to send the old savage and this spaniard over to them to treat .
but when we had got all things in readiness to go , the spaniard himself started an objection , which had so much prudence in it on one hand , and so much sincerity on the other hand , that i could not but be very well satisfied in it ; and , by his advice , put off the deliverance of his comrades for at least half a year .
the case was thus : he had been with us now about a month , during which time i had let him see in what manner i had provided , with the assistance of providence , for my support ; and he saw evidently what stock of corn and rice i had laid up ; which , though it was more than sufficient for myself , yet it was not sufficient , without good husbandry , for my family , now it was increased to four ; but much less would it be sufficient if his countrymen , who were , as he said , sixteen , still alive , should come over ; and least of all would it be sufficient to victual our vessel , if we should build one , for a voyage to any of the christian colonies of america ; so he told me he thought it would be more advisable to let him and the other two dig and cultivate some more land , as much as i could spare seed to sow , and that we should wait another harvest , that we might have a supply of corn for his countrymen , when they should come ; for want might be a temptation to them to disagree , or not to think themselves delivered , otherwise than out of one difficulty into another . " you know , " says he , " the children of israel , though they rejoiced at first for their being delivered out of egypt , yet rebelled even against god himself , that delivered them , when they came to want bread in the wilderness . "
his caution was so seasonable , and his advice so good , that i could not but be very well pleased with his proposal , as well as i was satisfied with his fidelity ; so we fell to digging , all four of us , as well as the wooden tools we were furnished with permitted ; and in about a month 's time , by the end of which it was seed-time , we had got as much land cured and trimmed up as we sowed two-and-twenty bushels of barley on , and sixteen jars of rice , which was , in short , all the seed we had to spare : indeed , we left ourselves barely sufficient , for our own food for the six months that we had to expect our crop ; that is to say reckoning from the time we set our seed aside for sowing ; for it is not to be supposed it is six months in the ground in that country .
having now society enough , and our numbers being sufficient to put us out of fear of the savages , if they had come , unless their number had been very great , we went freely all over the island , whenever we found occasion ; and as we had our escape or deliverance upon our thoughts , it was impossible , at least for me , to have the means of it out of mine .
for this purpose i marked out several trees , which i thought fit for our work , and i set friday and his father to cut them down ; and then i caused the spaniard , to whom i imparted my thoughts on that affair , to oversee and direct their work .
i showed them with what indefatigable pains i had hewed a large tree into single planks , and i caused them to do the like , till they made about a dozen large planks , of good oak , near two feet broad , thirty-five feet long , and from two inches to four inches thick : what prodigious labour it took up any one may imagine .
at the same time i contrived to increase my little flock of tame goats as much as i could ; and for this purpose i made friday and the spaniard go out one day , and myself with friday the next day ( for we took our turns ) , and by this means we got about twenty young kids to breed up with the rest ; for whenever we shot the dam , we saved the kids , and added them to our flock .
but above all , the season for curing the grapes coming on , i caused such a prodigious quantity to be hung up in the sun , that , i believe , had we been at alicant , where the raisins of the sun are cured , we could have filled sixty or eighty barrels ; and these , with our bread , formed a great part of our food - very good living too , i assure you , for they are exceedingly nourishing .
it was now harvest , and our crop in good order : it was not the most plentiful increase i had seen in the island , but , however , it was enough to answer our end ; for from twenty-two bushels of barley we brought in and thrashed out above two hundred and twenty bushels ; and the like in proportion of the rice ; which was store enough for our food to the next harvest , though all the sixteen spaniards had been on shore with me ; or , if we had been ready for a voyage , it would very plentifully have victualled our ship to have carried us to any part of the world ; that is to say , any part of america .
when we had thus housed and secured our magazine of corn , we fell to work to make more wicker-ware , viz. great baskets , in which we kept it ; and the spaniard was very handy and dexterous at this part , and often blamed me that i did not make some things for defence of this kind of work ; but i saw no need of it .
and now , having a full supply of food for all the guests i expected , i gave the spaniard leave to go over to the main , to see what he could do with those he had left behind him there .
i gave him a strict charge not to bring any man who would not first swear in the presence of himself and the old savage that he would in no way injure , fight with , or attack the person he should find in the island , who was so kind as to send for them in order to their deliverance ; but that they would stand by him and defend him against all such attempts , and wherever they went would be entirely under and subjected to his command ; and that this should be put in writing , and signed in their hands .
how they were to have done this , when i knew they had neither pen nor ink , was a question which we never asked .
under these instructions , the spaniard and the old savage , the father of friday , went away in one of the canoes which they might be said to have come in , or rather were brought in , when they came as prisoners to be devoured by the savages .
i gave each of them a musket , with a firelock on it , and about eight charges of powder and ball , charging them to be very good husbands of both , and not to use either of them but upon urgent occasions .
this was a cheerful work , being the first measures used by me in view of my deliverance for now twenty-seven years and some days . i gave them provisions of bread and of dried grapes , sufficient for themselves for many days , and sufficient for all the spaniards - for about eight days ' time ; and wishing them a good voyage , i saw them go , agreeing with them about a signal they should hang out at their return , by which i should know them again when they came back , at a distance , before they came on shore .
they went away with a fair gale on the day that the moon was at full , by my account in the month of october ; but as for an exact reckoning of days , after i had once lost it i could never recover it again ; nor had i kept even the number of years so punctually as to be sure i was right ; though , as it proved when i afterwards examined my account , i found i had kept a true reckoning of years .
it was no less than eight days i had waited for them , when a strange and unforeseen accident intervened , of which the like has not , perhaps , been heard of in history .
i was fast asleep in my hutch one morning , when my man friday came running in to me , and called aloud , " master , master , they are come , they are come ! "
i jumped up , and regardless of danger i went , as soon as i could get my clothes on , through my little grove , which , by the way , was by this time grown to be a very thick wood ; i say , regardless of danger i went without my arms , which was not my custom to do ; but i was surprised when , turning my eyes to the sea , i presently saw a boat at about a league and a half distance , standing in for the shore , with a shoulder-of-mutton sail , as they call it , and the wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in : also i observed , presently , that they did not come from that side which the shore lay on , but from the southernmost end of the island .
upon this i called friday in , and bade him lie close , for these were not the people we looked for , and that we might not know yet whether they were friends or enemies .
in the next place i went in to fetch my perspective glass to see what i could make of them ; and having taken the ladder out , i climbed up to the top of the hill , as i used to do when i was apprehensive of anything , and to take my view the plainer without being discovered .
i had scarce set my foot upon the hill when my eye plainly discovered a ship lying at anchor , at about two leagues and a half distance from me , sse . , but not above a league and a half from the shore .
by my observation it appeared plainly to be an english ship , and the boat appeared to be an english long-boat .
i cannot express the confusion i was in , though the joy of seeing a ship , and one that i had reason to believe was manned by my own countrymen , and consequently friends , was such as i cannot describe ; but yet i had some secret doubts hung about me - i cannot tell from whence they came - bidding me keep upon my guard .
in the first place , it occurred to me to consider what business an english ship could have in that part of the world , since it was not the way to or from any part of the world where the english had any traffic ; and i knew there had been no storms to drive them in there in distress ; and that if they were really english it was most probable that they were here upon no good design ; and that i had better continue as i was than fall into the hands of thieves and murderers .
let no man despise the secret hints and notices of danger which sometimes are given him when he may think there is no possibility of its being real .
that such hints and notices are given us i believe few that have made any observation of things can deny ; that they are certain discoveries of an invisible world , and a converse of spirits , we cannot doubt ; and if the tendency of them seems to be to warn us of danger , why should we not suppose they are from some friendly agent ( whether supreme , or inferior and subordinate , is not the question ) , and that they are given for our good ?
the present question abundantly confirms me in the justice of this reasoning ; for had i not been made cautious by this secret admonition , come it from whence it will , i had been done inevitably , and in a far worse condition than before , as you will see presently .
i had not kept myself long in this posture till i saw the boat draw near the shore , as if they looked for a creek to thrust in at , for the convenience of landing ; however , as they did not come quite far enough , they did not see the little inlet where i formerly landed my rafts , but ran their boat on shore upon the beach , at about half a mile from me , which was very happy for me ; for otherwise they would have landed just at my door , as i may say , and would soon have beaten me out of my castle , and perhaps have plundered me of all i had .
when they were on shore i was fully satisfied they were englishmen , at least most of them ; one or two i thought were dutch , but it did not prove so ; there were in all eleven men , whereof three of them i found were unarmed and , as i thought , bound ; and when the first four or five of them were jumped on shore , they took those three out of the boat as prisoners : one of the three i could perceive using the most passionate gestures of entreaty , affliction , and despair , even to a kind of extravagance ; the other two , i could perceive , lifted up their hands sometimes , and appeared concerned indeed , but not to such a degree as the first .
i was perfectly confounded at the sight , and knew not what the meaning of it should be .
friday called out to me in english , as well as he could , " o master ! you see english mans eat prisoner as well as savage mans . "
" why , friday , " says i , " do you think they are going to eat them , then ? " " yes , " says friday , " they will eat them . "
" no no , " says i , " friday ; i am afraid they will murder them , indeed ; but you may be sure they will not eat them . "
all this while i had no thought of what the matter really was , but stood trembling with the horror of the sight , expecting every moment when the three prisoners should be killed ; nay , once i saw one of the villains lift up his arm with a great cutlass , as the seamen call it , or sword , to strike one of the poor men ; and i expected to see him fall every moment ; at which all the blood in my body seemed to run chill in my veins .
i wished heartily now for the spaniard , and the savage that had gone with him , or that i had any way to have come undiscovered within shot of them , that i might have secured the three men , for i saw no firearms they had among them ; but it fell out to my mind another way .
after i had observed the outrageous usage of the three men by the insolent seamen , i observed the fellows run scattering about the island , as if they wanted to see the country .
i observed that the three other men had liberty to go also where they pleased ; but they sat down all three upon the ground , very pensive , and looked like men in despair .
this put me in mind of the first time when i came on shore , and began to look about me ; how i gave myself over for lost ; how wildly i looked round me ; what dreadful apprehensions i had ; and how i lodged in the tree all night for fear of being devoured by wild beasts .
as i knew nothing that night of the supply i was to receive by the providential driving of the ship nearer the land by the storms and tide , by which i have since been so long nourished and supported ; so these three poor desolate men knew nothing how certain of deliverance and supply they were , how near it was to them , and how effectually and really they were in a condition of safety , at the same time that they thought themselves lost and their case desperate .
so little do we see before us in the world , and so much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon the great maker of the world , that he does not leave his creatures so absolutely destitute , but that in the worst circumstances they have always something to be thankful for , and sometimes are nearer deliverance than they imagine ; nay , are even brought to their deliverance by the means by which they seem to be brought to their destruction .
it was just at high-water when these people came on shore ; and while they rambled about to see what kind of a place they were in , they had carelessly stayed till the tide was spent , and the water was ebbed considerably away , leaving their boat aground .
they had left two men in the boat , who , as i found afterwards , having drunk a little too much brandy , fell asleep ; however , one of them waking a little sooner than the other and finding the boat too fast aground for him to stir it , hallooed out for the rest , who were straggling about : upon which they all soon came to the boat : but it was past all their strength to launch her , the boat being very heavy , and the shore on that side being a soft oozy sand , almost like a quicksand .
in this condition , like true seamen , who are , perhaps , the least of all mankind given to forethought , they gave it over , and away they strolled about the country again ; and i heard one of them say aloud to another , calling them off from the boat , " why , let her alone , jack , can 't you ? she 'll float next tide ; " by which i was fully confirmed in the main inquiry of what countrymen they were .
all this while i kept myself very close , not once daring to stir out of my castle any farther than to my place of observation near the top of the hill : and very glad i was to think how well it was fortified .
i knew it was no less than ten hours before the boat could float again , and by that time it would be dark , and i might be at more liberty to see their motions , and to hear their discourse , if they had any .
in the meantime i fitted myself up for a battle as before , though with more caution , knowing i had to do with another kind of enemy than i had at first .
i ordered friday also , whom i had made an excellent marksman with his gun , to load himself with arms .
i took myself two fowling-pieces , and i gave him three muskets .
my figure , indeed , was very fierce ; i had my formidable goat-skin coat on , with the great cap i have mentioned , a naked sword by my side , two pistols in my belt , and a gun upon each shoulder .
it was my design , as i said above , not to have made any attempt till it was dark ; but about two o 'clock , being the heat of the day , i found that they were all gone straggling into the woods , and , as i thought , laid down to sleep .
the three poor distressed men , too anxious for their condition to get any sleep , had , however , sat down under the shelter of a great tree , at about a quarter of a mile from me , and , as i thought , out of sight of any of the rest .
upon this i resolved to discover myself to them , and learn something of their condition ; immediately i marched as above , my man friday at a good distance behind me , as formidable for his arms as i , but not making quite so staring a spectre-like figure as i did .
i came as near them undiscovered as i could , and then , before any of them saw me , i called aloud to them in spanish , " what are ye , gentlemen ? "
they started up at the noise , but were ten times more confounded when they saw me , and the uncouth figure that i made . they made no answer at all , but i thought i perceived them just going to fly from me , when i spoke to them in english .
" gentlemen , " said i , " do not be surprised at me ; perhaps you may have a friend near when you did not expect it . " " he must be sent directly from heaven then , " said one of them very gravely to me , and pulling off his hat at the same time to me ; " for our condition is past the help of man . "
" all help is from heaven , sir , " said i , " but can you put a stranger in the way to help you ? for you seem to be in some great distress .
i saw you when you landed ; and when you seemed to make application to the brutes that came with you , i saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you . "
the poor man , with tears running down his face , and trembling , looking like one astonished , returned , " am i talking to god or man ? is it a real man or an angel ? "
" be in no fear about that , sir , " said i ; " if god had sent an angel to relieve you , he would have come better clothed , and armed after another manner than you see me ; pray lay aside your fears ; i am a man , an englishman , and disposed to assist you ; you see i have one servant only ; we have arms and ammunition ; tell us freely , can we serve you ? what is your case ? "
" our case , sir , " said he , " is too long to tell you while our murderers are so near us ; but , in short , sir , i was commander of that ship - my men have mutinied against me ; they have been hardly prevailed on not to murder me , and , at last , have set me on shore in this desolate place , with these two men with me - one my mate , the other a passenger - where we expected to perish , believing the place to be uninhabited , and know not yet what to think of it . " " where are these brutes , your enemies ? " said i ; " do you know where they are gone ?
there they lie , sir , " said he , pointing to a thicket of trees ; " my heart trembles for fear they have seen us and heard you speak ; if they have , they will certainly murder us all . " " have they any firearms ? " said i. he answered , " they had only two pieces , one of which they left in the boat . "
" well , then , " said i , " leave the rest to me ; i see they are all asleep ; it is an easy thing to kill them all ; but shall we rather take them prisoners ? "
he told me there were two desperate villains among them that it was scarce safe to show any mercy to ; but if they were secured , he believed all the rest would return to their duty . i asked him which they were .
he told me he could not at that distance distinguish them , but he would obey my orders in anything i would direct .
" well , " says i , " let us retreat out of their view or hearing , lest they awake , and we will resolve further . " so they willingly went back with me , till the woods covered us from them .
" look you , sir , " said i , " if i venture upon your deliverance , are you willing to make two conditions with me ? "
he anticipated my proposals by telling me that both he and the ship , if recovered , should be wholly directed and commanded by me in everything ; and if the ship was not recovered , he would live and die with me in what part of the world soever i would send him ; and the two other men said the same .
" well , " says i , " my conditions are but two ; first , that while you stay in this island with me , you will not pretend to any authority here ; and if i put arms in your hands , you will , upon all occasions , give them up to me , and do no prejudice to me or mine upon this island , and in the meantime be governed by my orders ; secondly , that if the ship is or may be recovered , you will carry me and my man to england passage free . "
he gave me all the assurances that the invention or faith of man could devise that he would comply with these most reasonable demands , and besides would owe his life to me , and acknowledge it upon all occasions as long as he lived . " well , then , " said i , " here are three muskets for you , with powder and ball ; tell me next what you think is proper to be done . "
he showed all the testimonies of his gratitude that he was able , but offered to be wholly guided by me .
i told him i thought it was very hard venturing anything ; but the best method i could think of was to fire on them at once as they lay , and if any were not killed at the first volley , and offered to submit , we might save them , and so put it wholly upon god 's providence to direct the shot .
he said , very modestly , that he was loath to kill them if he could help it ; but that those two were incorrigible villains , and had been the authors of all the mutiny in the ship , and if they escaped , we should be undone still , for they would go on board and bring the whole ship 's company , and destroy us all . " well , then , " says i , " necessity legitimates my advice , for it is the only way to save our lives . "
in the middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake , and soon after we saw two of them on their feet .
i asked him if either of them were the heads of the mutiny ? he said , " no . "
" well , then , " said i , " you may let them escape ; and providence seems to have awakened them on purpose to save themselves .
now , " says i , " if the rest escape you , it is your fault . "
animated with this , he took the musket i had given him in his hand , and a pistol in his belt , and his two comrades with him , with each a piece in his hand ; the two men who were with him going first made some noise , at which one of the seamen who was awake turned about , and seeing them coming , cried out to the rest ; but was too late then , for the moment he cried out they fired - i mean the two men , the captain wisely reserving his own piece .
they had so well aimed their shot at the men they knew , that one of them was killed on the spot , and the other very much wounded ; but not being dead , he started up on his feet , and called eagerly for help to the other ; but the captain stepping to him , told him it was too late to cry for help , he should call upon god to forgive his villainy , and with that word knocked him down with the stock of his musket , so that he never spoke more ; there were three more in the company , and one of them was slightly wounded .
by this time i was come ; and when they saw their danger , and that it was in vain to resist , they begged for mercy .
the captain told them he would spare their lives if they would give him an assurance of their abhorrence of the treachery they had been guilty of , and would swear to be faithful to him in recovering the ship , and afterwards in carrying her back to jamaica , from whence they came . they gave him all the protestations of their sincerity that could be desired ; and he was willing to believe them , and spare their lives , which i was not against , only that i obliged him to keep them bound hand and foot while they were on the island .
while this was doing , i sent friday with the captain 's mate to the boat with orders to secure her , and bring away the oars and sails , which they did ; and by-and-by three straggling men , that were ( happily for them ) parted from the rest , came back upon hearing the guns fired ; and seeing the captain , who was before their prisoner , now their conqueror , they submitted to be bound also ; and so our victory was complete .
it now remained that the captain and i should inquire into one another 's circumstances .
i began first , and told him my whole history , which he heard with an attention even to amazement - and particularly at the wonderful manner of my being furnished with provisions and ammunition ; and , indeed , as my story is a whole collection of wonders , it affected him deeply .
but when he reflected from thence upon himself , and how i seemed to have been preserved there on purpose to save his life , the tears ran down his face , and he could not speak a word more .
after this communication was at an end , i carried him and his two men into my apartment , leading them in just where i came out , viz. at the top of the house , where i refreshed them with such provisions as i had , and showed them all the contrivances i had made during my long , long inhabiting that place .
all i showed them , all i said to them , was perfectly amazing ; but above all , the captain admired my fortification , and how perfectly i had concealed my retreat with a grove of trees , which having been now planted nearly twenty years , and the trees growing much faster than in england , was become a little wood , so thick that it was impassable in any part of it but at that one side where i had reserved my little winding passage into it .
i told him this was my castle and my residence , but that i had a seat in the country , as most princes have , whither i could retreat upon occasion , and i would show him that too another time ; but at present our business was to consider how to recover the ship .
he agreed with me as to that , but told me he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take , for that there were still six-and-twenty hands on board , who , having entered into a cursed conspiracy , by which they had all forfeited their lives to the law , would be hardened in it now by desperation , and would carry it on , knowing that if they were subdued they would be brought to the gallows as soon as they came to england , or to any of the english colonies , and that , therefore , there would be no attacking them with so small a number as we were .
i mused for some time on what he had said , and found it was a very rational conclusion , and that therefore something was to be resolved on speedily , as well to draw the men on board into some snare for their surprise as to prevent their landing upon us , and destroying us .
upon this , it presently occurred to me that in a little while the ship 's crew , wondering what was become of their comrades and of the boat , would certainly come on shore in their other boat to look for them , and that then , perhaps , they might come armed , and be too strong for us : this he allowed to be rational .
upon this , i told him the first thing we had to do was to stave the boat which lay upon the beach , so that they might not carry her of , and taking everything out of her , leave her so far useless as not to be fit to swim .
accordingly , we went on board , took the arms which were left on board out of her , and whatever else we found there - which was a bottle of brandy , and another of rum , a few biscuit-cakes , a horn of powder , and a great lump of sugar in a piece of canvas ( the sugar was five or six pounds ) : all which was very welcome to me , especially the brandy and sugar , of which i had had none left for many years .
when we had carried all these things on shore ( the oars , mast , sail , and rudder of the boat were carried away before ) , we knocked a great hole in her bottom , that if they had come strong enough to master us , yet they could not carry off the boat .
indeed , it was not much in my thoughts that we could be able to recover the ship ; but my view was , that if they went away without the boat , i did not much question to make her again fit to carry as to the leeward islands , and call upon our friends the spaniards in my way , for i had them still in my thoughts .
while we were thus preparing our designs , and had first , by main strength , heaved the boat upon the beach , so high that the tide would not float her off at high-water mark , and besides , had broke a hole in her bottom too big to be quickly stopped , and were set down musing what we should do , we heard the ship fire a gun , and make a waft with her ensign as a signal for the boat to come on board - but no boat stirred ; and they fired several times , making other signals for the boat .
at last , when all their signals and firing proved fruitless , and they found the boat did not stir , we saw them , by the help of my glasses , hoist another boat out and row towards the shore ; and we found , as they approached , that there were no less than ten men in her , and that they had firearms with them .
as the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore , we had a full view of them as they came , and a plain sight even of their faces ; because the tide having set them a little to the east of the other boat , they rowed up under shore , to come to the same place where the other had landed , and where the boat lay ; by this means , i say , we had a full view of them , and the captain knew the persons and characters of all the men in the boat , of whom , he said , there were three very honest fellows , who , he was sure , were led into this conspiracy by the rest , being over-powered and frightened ; but that as for the boatswain , who it seems was the chief officer among them , and all the rest , they were as outrageous as any of the ship 's crew , and were no doubt made desperate in their new enterprise ; and terribly apprehensive he was that they would be too powerful for us .
i smiled at him , and told him that men in our circumstances were past the operation of fear ; that seeing almost every condition that could be was better than that which we were supposed to be in , we ought to expect that the consequence , whether death or life , would be sure to be a deliverance . i asked him what he thought of the circumstances of my life , and whether a deliverance were not worth venturing for ?
" and where , sir , " said i , " is your belief of my being preserved here on purpose to save your life , which elevated you a little while ago ? for my part , " said i , " there seems to be but one thing amiss in all the prospect of it . "
" what is that ? " say he . " why , " said i , " it is , that as you say there are three or four honest fellows among them which should be spared , had they been all of the wicked part of the crew i should have thought god 's providence had singled them out to deliver them into your hands ; for depend upon it , every man that comes ashore is our own , and shall die or live as they behave to us . "
as i spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful countenance , i found it greatly encouraged him ; so we set vigorously to our business .
we had , upon the first appearance of the boat 's coming from the ship , considered of separating our prisoners ; and we had , indeed , secured them effectually . two of them , of whom the captain was less assured than ordinary , i sent with friday , and one of the three delivered men , to my cave , where they were remote enough , and out of danger of being heard or discovered , or of finding their way out of the woods if they could have delivered themselves .
here they left them bound , but gave them provisions ; and promised them , if they continued there quietly , to give them their liberty in a day or two ; but that if they attempted their escape they should be put to death without mercy .
they promised faithfully to bear their confinement with patience , and were very thankful that they had such good usage as to have provisions and light left them ; for friday gave them candles ( such as we made ourselves ) for their comfort ; and they did not know but that he stood sentinel over them at the entrance .
the other prisoners had better usage ; two of them were kept pinioned , indeed , because the captain was not able to trust them ; but the other two were taken into my service , upon the captain 's recommendation , and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die with us ; so with them and the three honest men we were seven men , well armed ; and i made no doubt we should be able to deal well enough with the ten that were coming , considering that the captain had said there were three or four honest men among them also .
as soon as they got to the place where their other boat lay , they ran their boat into the beach and came all on shore , hauling the boat up after them , which i was glad to see , for i was afraid they would rather have left the boat at an anchor some distance from the shore , with some hands in her to guard her , and so we should not be able to seize the boat .
being on shore , the first thing they did , they ran all to their other boat ; and it was easy to see they were under a great surprise to find her stripped , as above , of all that was in her , and a great hole in her bottom .
after they had mused a while upon this , they set up two or three great shouts , hallooing with all their might , to try if they could make their companions hear ; but all was to no purpose .
then they came all close in a ring , and fired a volley of their small arms , which indeed we heard , and the echoes made the woods ring .
but it was all one ; those in the cave , we were sure , could not hear ; and those in our keeping , though they heard it well enough , yet durst give no answer to them .
they were so astonished at the surprise of this , that , as they told us afterwards , they resolved to go all on board again to their ship , and let them know that the men were all murdered , and the long-boat staved ; accordingly , they immediately launched their boat again , and got all of them on board .
the captain was terribly amazed , and even confounded , at this , believing they would go on board the ship again and set sail , giving their comrades over for lost , and so he should still lose the ship , which he was in hopes we should have recovered ; but he was quickly as much frightened the other way .
they had not been long put off with the boat , when we perceived them all coming on shore again ; but with this new measure in their conduct , which it seems they consulted together upon , viz. to leave three men in the boat , and the rest to go on shore , and go up into the country to look for their fellows .
this was a great disappointment to us , for now we were at a loss what to do , as our seizing those seven men on shore would be no advantage to us if we let the boat escape ; because they would row away to the ship , and then the rest of them would be sure to weigh and set sail , and so our recovering the ship would be lost .
however we had no remedy but to wait and see what the issue of things might present .
the seven men came on shore , and the three who remained in the boat put her off to a good distance from the shore , and came to an anchor to wait for them ; so that it was impossible for us to come at them in the boat .
those that came on shore kept close together , marching towards the top of the little hill under which my habitation lay ; and we could see them plainly , though they could not perceive us .
we should have been very glad if they would have come nearer us , so that we might have fired at them , or that they would have gone farther off , that we might come abroad .
but when they were come to the brow of the hill where they could see a great way into the valleys and woods , which lay towards the north-east part , and where the island lay lowest , they shouted and hallooed till they were weary ; and not caring , it seems , to venture far from the shore , nor far from one another , they sat down together under a tree to consider it .
had they thought fit to have gone to sleep there , as the other part of them had done , they had done the job for us ; but they were too full of apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep , though they could not tell what the danger was they had to fear .
the captain made a very just proposal to me upon this consultation of theirs , viz. that perhaps they would all fire a volley again , to endeavour to make their fellows hear , and that we should all sally upon them just at the juncture when their pieces were all discharged , and they would certainly yield , and we should have them without bloodshed . i liked this proposal , provided it was done while we were near enough to come up to them before they could load their pieces again .
but this event did not happen ; and we lay still a long time , very irresolute what course to take .
at length i told them there would be nothing done , in my opinion , till night ; and then , if they did not return to the boat , perhaps we might find a way to get between them and the shore , and so might use some stratagem with them in the boat to get them on shore .
we waited a great while , though very impatient for their removing ; and were very uneasy when , after long consultation , we saw them all start up and march down towards the sea ; it seems they had such dreadful apprehensions of the danger of the place that they resolved to go on board the ship again , give their companions over for lost , and so go on with their intended voyage with the ship .
as soon as i perceived them go towards the shore , i imagined it to be as it really was that they had given over their search , and were going back again ; and the captain , as soon as i told him my thoughts , was ready to sink at the apprehensions of it ; but i presently thought of a stratagem to fetch them back again , and which answered my end to a tittle .
i ordered friday and the captain 's mate to go over the little creek westward , towards the place where the savages came on shore , when friday was rescued , and so soon as they came to a little rising round , at about half a mile distant , i bid them halloo out , as loud as they could , and wait till they found the seamen heard them ; that as soon as ever they heard the seamen answer them , they should return it again ; and then , keeping out of sight , take a round , always answering when the others hallooed , to draw them as far into the island and among the woods as possible , and then wheel about again to me by such ways as i directed them .
they were just going into the boat when friday and the mate hallooed ; and they presently heard them , and answering , ran along the shore westward , towards the voice they heard , when they were stopped by the creek , where the water being up , they could not get over , and called for the boat to come up and set them over ; as , indeed , i expected .
when they had set themselves over , i observed that the boat being gone a good way into the creek , and , as it were , in a harbour within the land , they took one of the three men out of her , to go along with them , and left only two in the boat , having fastened her to the stump of a little tree on the shore .
this was what i wished for ; and immediately leaving friday and the captain 's mate to their business , i took the rest with me ; and , crossing the creek out of their sight , we surprised the two men before they were aware - one of them lying on the shore , and the other being in the boat .
the fellow on shore was between sleeping and waking , and going to start up ; the captain , who was foremost , ran in upon him , and knocked him down ; and then called out to him in the boat to yield , or he was a dead man .
they needed very few arguments to persuade a single man to yield , when he saw five men upon him and his comrade knocked down : besides , this was , it seems , one of the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the crew , and therefore was easily persuaded not only to yield , but afterwards to join very sincerely with us .
in the meantime , friday and the captain 's mate so well managed their business with the rest that they drew them , by hallooing and answering , from one hill to another , and from one wood to another , till they not only heartily tired them , but left them where they were , very sure they could not reach back to the boat before it was dark ; and , indeed , they were heartily tired themselves also , by the time they came back to us .
we had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the dark , and to fall upon them , so as to make sure work with them .
it was several hours after friday came back to me before they came back to their boat ; and we could hear the foremost of them , long before they came quite up , calling to those behind to come along ; and could also hear them answer , and complain how lame and tired they were , and not able to come any faster : which was very welcome news to us .
at length they came up to the boat : but it is impossible to express their confusion when they found the boat fast aground in the creek , the tide ebbed out , and their two men gone .
we could hear them call one to another in a most lamentable manner , telling one another they were got into an enchanted island ; that either there were inhabitants in it , and they should all be murdered , or else there were devils and spirits in it , and they should be all carried away and devoured .
they hallooed again , and called their two comrades by their names a great many times ; but no answer .
after some time we could see them , by the little light there was , run about , wringing their hands like men in despair , and sometimes they would go and sit down in the boat to rest themselves : then come ashore again , and walk about again , and so the same thing over again .
my men would fain have had me give them leave to fall upon them at once in the dark ; but i was willing to take them at some advantage , so as to spare them , and kill as few of them as i could ; and especially i was unwilling to hazard the killing of any of our men , knowing the others were very well armed .
i resolved to wait , to see if they did not separate ; and therefore , to make sure of them , i drew my ambuscade nearer , and ordered friday and the captain to creep upon their hands and feet , as close to the ground as they could , that they might not be discovered , and get as near them as they could possibly before they offered to fire .
they had not been long in that posture when the boatswain , who was the principal ringleader of the mutiny , and had now shown himself the most dejected and dispirited of all the rest , came walking towards them , with two more of the crew ; the captain was so eager at having this principal rogue so much in his power , that he could hardly have patience to let him come so near as to be sure of him , for they only heard his tongue before : but when they came nearer , the captain and friday , starting up on their feet , let fly at them .
the boatswain was killed upon the spot : the next man was shot in the body , and fell just by him , though he did not die till an hour or two after ; and the third ran for it .
at the noise of the fire i immediately advanced with my whole army , which was now eight men , viz. myself , generalissimo ; friday , my lieutenant-general ; the captain and his two men , and the three prisoners of war whom we had trusted with arms .
we came upon them , indeed , in the dark , so that they could not see our number ; and i made the man they had left in the boat , who was now one of us , to call them by name , to try if i could bring them to a parley , and so perhaps might reduce them to terms ; which fell out just as we desired : for indeed it was easy to think , as their condition then was , they would be very willing to capitulate . so he calls out as loud as he could to one of them , " tom smith !
tom smith ! " tom smith answered immediately , " is that robinson ? " for it seems he knew the voice .
the other answered , " ay , ay ; for god 's sake , tom smith , throw down your arms and yield , or you are all dead men this moment . " " who must we yield to ?
where are they ? " says smith again . " here they are , " says he ; " here 's our captain and fifty men with him , have been hunting you these two hours ; the boatswain is killed ; will fry is wounded , and i am a prisoner ; and if you do not yield you are all lost . "
" will they give us quarter , then ? " says tom smith , " and we will yield . "
" i 'll go and ask , if you promise to yield , " said robinson : so he asked the captain , and the captain himself then calls out , " you , smith , you know my voice ; if you lay down your arms immediately and submit , you shall have your lives , all but will atkins . "
upon this will atkins cried out , " for god 's sake , captain , give me quarter ; what have i done ?
they have all been as bad as i : " which , by the way , was not true ; for it seems this will atkins was the first man that laid hold of the captain when they first mutinied , and used him barbarously in tying his hands and giving him injurious language .
however , the captain told him he must lay down his arms at discretion , and trust to the governor 's mercy : by which he meant me , for they all called me governor .
in a word , they all laid down their arms and begged their lives ; and i sent the man that had parleyed with them , and two more , who bound them all ; and then my great army of fifty men , which , with those three , were in all but eight , came up and seized upon them , and upon their boat ; only that i kept myself and one more out of sight for reasons of state .
our next work was to repair the boat , and think of seizing the ship : and as for the captain , now he had leisure to parley with them , he expostulated with them upon the villainy of their practices with him , and upon the further wickedness of their design , and how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress in the end , and perhaps to the gallows .
they all appeared very penitent , and begged hard for their lives .
as for that , he told them they were not his prisoners , but the commander 's of the island ; that they thought they had set him on shore in a barren , uninhabited island ; but it had pleased god so to direct them that it was inhabited , and that the governor was an englishman ; that he might hang them all there , if he pleased ; but as he had given them all quarter , he supposed he would send them to england , to be dealt with there as justice required , except atkins , whom he was commanded by the governor to advise to prepare for death , for that he would be hanged in the morning .
though this was all but a fiction of his own , yet it had its desired effect ; atkins fell upon his knees to beg the captain to intercede with the governor for his life ; and all the rest begged of him , for god 's sake , that they might not be sent to england .
it now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance was come , and that it would be a most easy thing to bring these fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the ship ; so i retired in the dark from them , that they might not see what kind of a governor they had , and called the captain to me ; when i called , at a good distance , one of the men was ordered to speak again , and say to the captain , " captain , the commander calls for you ; " and presently the captain replied , " tell his excellency i am just coming . "
this more perfectly amazed them , and they all believed that the commander was just by , with his fifty men .
upon the captain coming to me , i told him my project for seizing the ship , which he liked wonderfully well , and resolved to put it in execution the next morning .
but , in order to execute it with more art , and to be secure of success , i told him we must divide the prisoners , and that he should go and take atkins , and two more of the worst of them , and send them pinioned to the cave where the others lay .
this was committed to friday and the two men who came on shore with the captain .
they conveyed them to the cave as to a prison : and it was , indeed , a dismal place , especially to men in their condition .
the others i ordered to my bower , as i called it , of which i have given a full description : and as it was fenced in , and they pinioned , the place was secure enough , considering they were upon their behaviour .
to these in the morning i sent the captain , who was to enter into a parley with them ; in a word , to try them , and tell me whether he thought they might be trusted or not to go on board and surprise the ship .
he talked to them of the injury done him , of the condition they were brought to , and that though the governor had given them quarter for their lives as to the present action , yet that if they were sent to england they would all be hanged in chains ; but that if they would join in so just an attempt as to recover the ship , he would have the governor 's engagement for their pardon .
any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be accepted by men in their condition ; they fell down on their knees to the captain , and promised , with the deepest imprecations , that they would be faithful to him to the last drop , and that they should owe their lives to him , and would go with him all over the world ; that they would own him as a father to them as long as they lived . " well , " says the captain , " i must go and tell the governor what you say , and see what i can do to bring him to consent to it . "
so he brought me an account of the temper he found them in , and that he verily believed they would be faithful . however , that we might be very secure , i told him he should go back again and choose out those five , and tell them , that they might see he did not want men , that he would take out those five to be his assistants , and that the governor would keep the other two , and the three that were sent prisoners to the castle ( my cave ) , as hostages for the fidelity of those five ; and that if they proved unfaithful in the execution , the five hostages should be hanged in chains alive on the shore .
this looked severe , and convinced them that the governor was in earnest ; however , they had no way left them but to accept it ; and it was now the business of the prisoners , as much as of the captain , to persuade the other five to do their duty .
our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition : first , the captain , his mate , and passenger ; second , the two prisoners of the first gang , to whom , having their character from the captain , i had given their liberty , and trusted them with arms ; third , the other two that i had kept till now in my bower , pinioned , but on the captain 's motion had now released ; fourth , these five released at last ; so that there were twelve in all , besides five we kept prisoners in the cave for hostages .
i asked the captain if he was willing to venture with these hands on board the ship ; but as for me and my man friday , i did not think it was proper for us to stir , having seven men left behind ; and it was employment enough for us to keep them asunder , and supply them with victuals .
as to the five in the cave , i resolved to keep them fast , but friday went in twice a day to them , to supply them with necessaries ; and i made the other two carry provisions to a certain distance , where friday was to take them .
when i showed myself to the two hostages , it was with the captain , who told them i was the person the governor had ordered to look after them ; and that it was the governor 's pleasure they should not stir anywhere but by my direction ; that if they did , they would be fetched into the castle , and be laid in irons : so that as we never suffered them to see me as governor , i now appeared as another person , and spoke of the governor , the garrison , the castle , and the like , upon all occasions .
the captain now had no difficulty before him , but to furnish his two boats , stop the breach of one , and man them .
he made his passenger captain of one , with four of the men ; and himself , his mate , and five more , went in the other ; and they contrived their business very well , for they came up to the ship about midnight .
as soon as they came within call of the ship , he made robinson hail them , and tell them they had brought off the men and the boat , but that it was a long time before they had found them , and the like , holding them in a chat till they came to the ship 's side ; when the captain and the mate entering first with their arms , immediately knocked down the second mate and carpenter with the butt-end of their muskets , being very faithfully seconded by their men ; they secured all the rest that were upon the main and quarter decks , and began to fasten the hatches , to keep them down that were below ; when the other boat and their men , entering at the forechains , secured the forecastle of the ship , and the scuttle which went down into the cook-room , making three men they found there prisoners .
when this was done , and all safe upon deck , the captain ordered the mate , with three men , to break into the round-house , where the new rebel captain lay , who , having taken the alarm , had got up , and with two men and a boy had got firearms in their hands ; and when the mate , with a crow , split open the door , the new captain and his men fired boldly among them , and wounded the mate with a musket ball , which broke his arm , and wounded two more of the men , but killed nobody .
the mate , calling for help , rushed , however , into the round-house , wounded as he was , and , with his pistol , shot the new captain through the head , the bullet entering at his mouth , and came out again behind one of his ears , so that he never spoke a word more : upon which the rest yielded , and the ship was taken effectually , without any more lives lost .
as soon as the ship was thus secured , the captain ordered seven guns to be fired , which was the signal agreed upon with me to give me notice of his success , which , you may be sure , i was very glad to hear , having sat watching upon the shore for it till near two o 'clock in the morning .
having thus heard the signal plainly , i laid me down ; and it having been a day of great fatigue to me , i slept very sound , till i was surprised with the noise of a gun ; and presently starting up , i heard a man call me by the name of " governor !
governor ! " and presently i knew the captain 's voice ; when , climbing up to the top of the hill , there he stood , and , pointing to the ship , he embraced me in his arms , " my dear friend and deliverer , " says he , " there 's your ship ; for she is all yours , and so are we , and all that belong to her . "
i cast my eyes to the ship , and there she rode , within little more than half a mile of the shore ; for they had weighed her anchor as soon as they were masters of her , and , the weather being fair , had brought her to an anchor just against the mouth of the little creek ; and the tide being up , the captain had brought the pinnace in near the place where i had first landed my rafts , and so landed just at my door .
i was at first ready to sink down with the surprise ; for i saw my deliverance , indeed , visibly put into my hands , all things easy , and a large ship just ready to carry me away whither i pleased to go .
at first , for some time , i was not able to answer him one word ; but as he had taken me in his arms i held fast by him , or i should have fallen to the ground .
he perceived the surprise , and immediately pulled a bottle out of his pocket and gave me a dram of cordial , which he had brought on purpose for me .
after i had drunk it , i sat down upon the ground ; and though it brought me to myself , yet it was a good while before i could speak a word to him .
all this time the poor man was in as great an ecstasy as i , only not under any surprise as i was ; and he said a thousand kind and tender things to me , to compose and bring me to myself ; but such was the flood of joy in my breast , that it put all my spirits into confusion : at last it broke out into tears , and in a little while after i recovered my speech ; i then took my turn , and embraced him as my deliverer , and we rejoiced together .
i told him i looked upon him as a man sent by heaven to deliver me , and that the whole transaction seemed to be a chain of wonders ; that such things as these were the testimonies we had of a secret hand of providence governing the world , and an evidence that the eye of an infinite power could search into the remotest corner of the world , and send help to the miserable whenever he pleased .
i forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to heaven ; and what heart could forbear to bless him , who had not only in a miraculous manner provided for me in such a wilderness , and in such a desolate condition , but from whom every deliverance must always be acknowledged to proceed .
when we had talked a while , the captain told me he had brought me some little refreshment , such as the ship afforded , and such as the wretches that had been so long his masters had not plundered him of .
upon this , he called aloud to the boat , and bade his men bring the things ashore that were for the governor ; and , indeed , it was a present as if i had been one that was not to be carried away with them , but as if i had been to dwell upon the island still .
first , he had brought me a case of bottles full of excellent cordial waters , six large bottles of madeira wine ( the bottles held two quarts each ) , two pounds of excellent good tobacco , twelve good pieces of the ship 's beef , and six pieces of pork , with a bag of peas , and about a hundred-weight of biscuit ; he also brought me a box of sugar , a box of flour , a bag full of lemons , and two bottles of lime-juice , and abundance of other things .
but besides these , and what was a thousand times more useful to me , he brought me six new clean shirts , six very good neckcloths , two pair of gloves , one pair of shoes , a hat , and one pair of stockings , with a very good suit of clothes of his own , which had been worn but very little : in a word , he clothed me from head to foot .
it was a very kind and agreeable present , as any one may imagine , to one in my circumstances , but never was anything in the world of that kind so unpleasant , awkward , and uneasy as it was to me to wear such clothes at first .
after these ceremonies were past , and after all his good things were brought into my little apartment , we began to consult what was to be done with the prisoners we had ; for it was worth considering whether we might venture to take them with us or no , especially two of them , whom he knew to be incorrigible and refractory to the last degree ; and the captain said he knew they were such rogues that there was no obliging them , and if he did carry them away , it must be in irons , as malefactors , to be delivered over to justice at the first english colony he could come to ; and i found that the captain himself was very anxious about it . upon this , i told him that , if he desired it , i would undertake to bring the two men he spoke of to make it their own request that he should leave them upon the island .
" i should be very glad of that , " says the captain , " with all my heart . "
" well , " says i , " i will send for them up and talk with them for you . " so i caused friday and the two hostages , for they were now discharged , their comrades having performed their promise ; i say , i caused them to go to the cave , and bring up the five men , pinioned as they were , to the bower , and keep them there till i came .
after some time , i came thither dressed in my new habit ; and now i was called governor again .
being all met , and the captain with me , i caused the men to be brought before me , and i told them i had got a full account of their villainous behaviour to the captain , and how they had run away with the ship , and were preparing to commit further robberies , but that providence had ensnared them in their own ways , and that they were fallen into the pit which they had dug for others .
i let them know that by my direction the ship had been seized ; that she lay now in the road ; and they might see by-and-by that their new captain had received the reward of his villainy , and that they would see him hanging at the yard-arm ; that , as to them , i wanted to know what they had to say why i should not execute them as pirates taken in the fact , as by my commission they could not doubt but i had authority so to do .
one of them answered in the name of the rest , that they had nothing to say but this , that when they were taken the captain promised them their lives , and they humbly implored my mercy . but i told them i knew not what mercy to show them ; for as for myself , i had resolved to quit the island with all my men , and had taken passage with the captain to go to england ; and as for the captain , he could not carry them to england other than as prisoners in irons , to be tried for mutiny and running away with the ship ; the consequence of which , they must needs know , would be the gallows ; so that i could not tell what was best for them , unless they had a mind to take their fate in the island .
if they desired that , as i had liberty to leave the island , i had some inclination to give them their lives , if they thought they could shift on shore . they seemed very thankful for it , and said they would much rather venture to stay there than be carried to england to be hanged .
however , the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it , as if he durst not leave them there .
upon this i seemed a little angry with the captain , and told him that they were my prisoners , not his ; and that seeing i had offered them so much favour , i would be as good as my word ; and that if he did not think fit to consent to it i would set them at liberty , as i found them : and if he did not like it he might take them again if he could catch them .
upon this they appeared very thankful , and i accordingly set them at liberty , and bade them retire into the woods , to the place whence they came , and i would leave them some firearms , some ammunition , and some directions how they should live very well if they thought fit .
upon this i prepared to go on board the ship ; but told the captain i would stay that night to prepare my things , and desired him to go on board in the meantime , and keep all right in the ship , and send the boat on shore next day for me ; ordering him , at all events , to cause the new captain , who was killed , to be hanged at the yard-arm , that these men might see him .
when the captain was gone i sent for the men up to me to my apartment , and entered seriously into discourse with them on their circumstances .
i told them i thought they had made a right choice ; that if the captain had carried them away they would certainly be hanged .
i showed them the new captain hanging at the yard-arm of the ship , and told them they had nothing less to expect .
when they had all declared their willingness to stay , i then told them i would let them into the story of my living there , and put them into the way of making it easy to them .
accordingly , i gave them the whole history of the place , and of my coming to it ; showed them my fortifications , the way i made my bread , planted my corn , cured my grapes ; and , in a word , all that was necessary to make them easy . i told them the story also of the seventeen spaniards that were to be expected , for whom i left a letter , and made them promise to treat them in common with themselves .
here it may be noted that the captain , who had ink on board , was greatly surprised that i never hit upon a way of making ink of charcoal and water , or of something else , as i had done things much more difficult .
i left them my firearms - viz. five muskets , three fowling-pieces , and three swords . i had above a barrel and a half of powder left ; for after the first year or two i used but little , and wasted none .
i gave them a description of the way i managed the goats , and directions to milk and fatten them , and to make both butter and cheese .
in a word , i gave them every part of my own story ; and told them i should prevail with the captain to leave them two barrels of gunpowder more , and some garden-seeds , which i told them i would have been very glad of .
also , i gave them the bag of peas which the captain had brought me to eat , and bade them be sure to sow and increase them .
having done all this i left them the next day , and went on board the ship .
we prepared immediately to sail , but did not weigh that night .
the next morning early , two of the five men came swimming to the ship 's side , and making the most lamentable complaint of the other three , begged to be taken into the ship for god 's sake , for they should be murdered , and begged the captain to take them on board , though he hanged them immediately .
upon this the captain pretended to have no power without me ; but after some difficulty , and after their solemn promises of amendment , they were taken on board , and were , some time after , soundly whipped and pickled ; after which they proved very honest and quiet fellows .
some time after this , the boat was ordered on shore , the tide being up , with the things promised to the men ; to which the captain , at my intercession , caused their chests and clothes to be added , which they took , and were very thankful for .
i also encouraged them , by telling them that if it lay in my power to send any vessel to take them in , i would not forget them .
when i took leave of this island , i carried on board , for relics , the great goat-skin cap i had made , my umbrella , and one of my parrots ; also , i forgot not to take the money i formerly mentioned , which had lain by me so long useless that it was grown rusty or tarnished , and could hardly pass for silver till it had been a little rubbed and handled , as also the money i found in the wreck of the spanish ship .
and thus i left the island , the 19th of december , as i found by the ship 's account , in the year 1686 , after i had been upon it eight-and-twenty years , two months , and nineteen days ; being delivered from this second captivity the same day of the month that i first made my escape in the long-boat from among the moors of sallee .
in this vessel , after a long voyage , i arrived in england the 11th of june , in the year 1687 , having been thirty-five years absent .
when i came to england i was as perfect a stranger to all the world as if i had never been known there .
my benefactor and faithful steward , whom i had left my money in trust with , was alive , but had had great misfortunes in the world ; was become a widow the second time , and very low in the world .
i made her very easy as to what she owed me , assuring her i would give her no trouble ; but , on the contrary , in gratitude for her former care and faithfulness to me , i relieved her as my little stock would afford ; which at that time would , indeed , allow me to do but little for her ; but i assured her i would never forget her former kindness to me ; nor did i forget her when i had sufficient to help her , as shall be observed in its proper place .
i went down afterwards into yorkshire ; but my father was dead , and my mother and all the family extinct , except that i found two sisters , and two of the children of one of my brothers ; and as i had been long ago given over for dead , there had been no provision made for me ; so that , in a word , i found nothing to relieve or assist me ; and that the little money i had would not do much for me as to settling in the world .
i met with one piece of gratitude indeed , which i did not expect ; and this was , that the master of the ship , whom i had so happily delivered , and by the same means saved the ship and cargo , having given a very handsome account to the owners of the manner how i had saved the lives of the men and the ship , they invited me to meet them and some other merchants concerned , and all together made me a very handsome compliment upon the subject , and a present of almost  200 sterling .
but after making several reflections upon the circumstances of my life , and how little way this would go towards settling me in the world , i resolved to go to lisbon , and see if i might not come at some information of the state of my plantation in the brazils , and of what was become of my partner , who , i had reason to suppose , had some years past given me over for dead .
with this view i took shipping for lisbon , where i arrived in april following , my man friday accompanying me very honestly in all these ramblings , and proving a most faithful servant upon all occasions .
when i came to lisbon , i found out , by inquiry , and to my particular satisfaction , my old friend , the captain of the ship who first took me up at sea off the shore of africa .
he was now grown old , and had left off going to sea , having put his son , who was far from a young man , into his ship , and who still used the brazil trade .
the old man did not know me , and indeed i hardly knew him . but i soon brought him to my remembrance , and as soon brought myself to his remembrance , when i told him who i was .
after some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance between us , i inquired , you may be sure , after my plantation and my partner .
the old man told me he had not been in the brazils for about nine years ; but that he could assure me that when he came away my partner was living , but the trustees whom i had joined with him to take cognisance of my part were both dead : that , however , he believed i would have a very good account of the improvement of the plantation ; for that , upon the general belief of my being cast away and drowned , my trustees had given in the account of the produce of my part of the plantation to the procurator-fiscal , who had appropriated it , in case i never came to claim it , one-third to the king , and two-thirds to the monastery of st. augustine , to be expended for the benefit of the poor , and for the conversion of the indians to the catholic faith : but that , if i appeared , or any one for me , to claim the inheritance , it would be restored ; only that the improvement , or annual production , being distributed to charitable uses , could not be restored : but he assured me that the steward of the king 's revenue from lands , and the providore , or steward of the monastery , had taken great care all along that the incumbent , that is to say my partner , gave every year a faithful account of the produce , of which they had duly received my moiety .
i asked him if he knew to what height of improvement he had brought the plantation , and whether he thought it might be worth looking after ; or whether , on my going thither , i should meet with any obstruction to my possessing my just right in the moiety .
he told me he could not tell exactly to what degree the plantation was improved ; but this he knew , that my partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoying his part of it ; and that , to the best of his remembrance , he had heard that the king 's third of my part , which was , it seems , granted away to some other monastery or religious house , amounted to above two hundred moidores a year : that as to my being restored to a quiet possession of it , there was no question to be made of that , my partner being alive to witness my title , and my name being also enrolled in the register of the country ; also he told me that the survivors of my two trustees were very fair , honest people , and very wealthy ; and he believed i would not only have their assistance for putting me in possession , but would find a very considerable sum of money in their hands for my account , being the produce of the farm while their fathers held the trust , and before it was given up , as above ; which , as he remembered , was for about twelve years .
i showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this account , and inquired of the old captain how it came to pass that the trustees should thus dispose of my effects , when he knew that i had made my will , and had made him , the portuguese captain , my universal heir , & c .
he told me that was true ; but that as there was no proof of my being dead , he could not act as executor until some certain account should come of my death ; and , besides , he was not willing to intermeddle with a thing so remote : that it was true he had registered my will , and put in his claim ; and could he have given any account of my being dead or alive , he would have acted by procuration , and taken possession of the ingenio ( so they call the sugar-house ) , and have given his son , who was now at the brazils , orders to do it .
" but , " says the old man , " i have one piece of news to tell you , which perhaps may not be so acceptable to you as the rest ; and that is , believing you were lost , and all the world believing so also , your partner and trustees did offer to account with me , in your name , for the first six or eight years ' profits , which i received .
there being at that time great disbursements for increasing the works , building an ingenio , and buying slaves , it did not amount to near so much as afterwards it produced ; however , " says the old man , " i shall give you a true account of what i have received in all , and how i have disposed of it . "
after a few days ' further conference with this ancient friend , he brought me an account of the first six years ' income of my plantation , signed by my partner and the merchant-trustees , being always delivered in goods , viz. tobacco in roll , and sugar in chests , besides rum , molasses , & c . , which is the consequence of a sugar-work ; and i found by this account , that every year the income considerably increased ; but , as above , the disbursements being large , the sum at first was small : however , the old man let me see that he was debtor to me four hundred and seventy moidores of gold , besides sixty chests of sugar and fifteen double rolls of tobacco , which were lost in his ship ; he having been shipwrecked coming home to lisbon , about eleven years after my having the place .
the good man then began to complain of his misfortunes , and how he had been obliged to make use of my money to recover his losses , and buy him a share in a new ship .
" however , my old friend , " says he , " you shall not want a supply in your necessity ; and as soon as my son returns you shall be fully satisfied . "
upon this he pulls out an old pouch , and gives me one hundred and sixty portugal moidores in gold ; and giving the writings of his title to the ship , which his son was gone to the brazils in , of which he was quarter-part owner , and his son another , he puts them both into my hands for security of the rest .
i was too much moved with the honesty and kindness of the poor man to be able to bear this ; and remembering what he had done for me , how he had taken me up at sea , and how generously he had used me on all occasions , and particularly how sincere a friend he was now to me , i could hardly refrain weeping at what he had said to me ; therefore i asked him if his circumstances admitted him to spare so much money at that time , and if it would not straiten him ?
he told me he could not say but it might straiten him a little ; but , however , it was my money , and i might want it more than he .
everything the good man said was full of affection , and i could hardly refrain from tears while he spoke ; in short , i took one hundred of the moidores , and called for a pen and ink to give him a receipt for them : then i returned him the rest , and told him if ever i had possession of the plantation i would return the other to him also ( as , indeed , i afterwards did ) ; and that as to the bill of sale of his part in his son 's ship , i would not take it by any means ; but that if i wanted the money , i found he was honest enough to pay me ; and if i did not , but came to receive what he gave me reason to expect , i would never have a penny more from him .
when this was past , the old man asked me if he should put me into a method to make my claim to my plantation .
i told him i thought to go over to it myself . he said i might do so if i pleased , but that if i did not , there were ways enough to secure my right , and immediately to appropriate the profits to my use : and as there were ships in the river of lisbon just ready to go away to brazil , he made me enter my name in a public register , with his affidavit , affirming , upon oath , that i was alive , and that i was the same person who took up the land for the planting the said plantation at first .
this being regularly attested by a notary , and a procuration affixed , he directed me to send it , with a letter of his writing , to a merchant of his acquaintance at the place ; and then proposed my staying with him till an account came of the return .
never was anything more honourable than the proceedings upon this procuration ; for in less than seven months i received a large packet from the survivors of my trustees , the merchants , for whose account i went to sea , in which were the following , particular letters and papers enclosed : -
first , there was the account-current of the produce of my farm or plantation , from the year when their fathers had balanced with my old portugal captain , being for six years ; the balance appeared to be one thousand one hundred and seventy-four moidores in my favour .
secondly , there was the account of four years more , while they kept the effects in their hands , before the government claimed the administration , as being the effects of a person not to be found , which they called civil death ; and the balance of this , the value of the plantation increasing , amounted to nineteen thousand four hundred and forty-six crusadoes , being about three thousand two hundred and forty moidores .
thirdly , there was the prior of st. augustine 's account , who had received the profits for above fourteen years ; but not being able to account for what was disposed of by the hospital , very honestly declared he had eight hundred and seventy-two moidores not distributed , which he acknowledged to my account : as to the king 's part , that refunded nothing .
there was a letter of my partner 's , congratulating me very affectionately upon my being alive , giving me an account how the estate was improved , and what it produced a year ; with the particulars of the number of squares , or acres that it contained , how planted , how many slaves there were upon it : and making two-and-twenty crosses for blessings , told me he had said so many _ ave marias _ to thank the blessed virgin that i was alive ; inviting me very passionately to come over and take possession of my own , and in the meantime to give him orders to whom he should deliver my effects if i did not come myself ; concluding with a hearty tender of his friendship , and that of his family ; and sent me as a present seven fine leopards ' skins , which he had , it seems , received from africa , by some other ship that he had sent thither , and which , it seems , had made a better voyage than i. he sent me also five chests of excellent sweetmeats , and a hundred pieces of gold uncoined , not quite so large as moidores .
by the same fleet my two merchant-trustees shipped me one thousand two hundred chests of sugar , eight hundred rolls of tobacco , and the rest of the whole account in gold .
i might well say now , indeed , that the latter end of job was better than the beginning .
it is impossible to express the flutterings of my very heart when i found all my wealth about me ; for as the brazil ships come all in fleets , the same ships which brought my letters brought my goods : and the effects were safe in the river before the letters came to my hand .
in a word , i turned pale , and grew sick ; and , had not the old man run and fetched me a cordial , i believe the sudden surprise of joy had overset nature , and i had died upon the spot : nay , after that i continued very ill , and was so some hours , till a physician being sent for , and something of the real cause of my illness being known , he ordered me to be let blood ; after which i had relief , and grew well : but i verily believe , if i had not been eased by a vent given in that manner to the spirits , i should have died .
i was now master , all on a sudden , of above five thousand pounds sterling in money , and had an estate , as i might well call it , in the brazils , of above a thousand pounds a year , as sure as an estate of lands in england : and , in a word , i was in a condition which i scarce knew how to understand , or how to compose myself for the enjoyment of it .
the first thing i did was to recompense my original benefactor , my good old captain , who had been first charitable to me in my distress , kind to me in my beginning , and honest to me at the end .
i showed him all that was sent to me ; i told him that , next to the providence of heaven , which disposed all things , it was owing to him ; and that it now lay on me to reward him , which i would do a hundred-fold : so i first returned to him the hundred moidores i had received of him ; then i sent for a notary , and caused him to draw up a general release or discharge from the four hundred and seventy moidores , which he had acknowledged he owed me , in the fullest and firmest manner possible .
after which i caused a procuration to be drawn , empowering him to be the receiver of the annual profits of my plantation : and appointing my partner to account with him , and make the returns , by the usual fleets , to him in my name ; and by a clause in the end , made a grant of one hundred moidores a year to him during his life , out of the effects , and fifty moidores a year to his son after him , for his life : and thus i requited my old man .
i had now to consider which way to steer my course next , and what to do with the estate that providence had thus put into my hands ; and , indeed , i had more care upon my head now than i had in my state of life in the island where i wanted nothing but what i had , and had nothing but what i wanted ; whereas i had now a great charge upon me , and my business was how to secure it .
i had not a cave now to hide my money in , or a place where it might lie without lock or key , till it grew mouldy and tarnished before anybody would meddle with it ; on the contrary , i knew not where to put it , or whom to trust with it .
my old patron , the captain , indeed , was honest , and that was the only refuge i had .
in the next place , my interest in the brazils seemed to summon me thither ; but now i could not tell how to think of going thither till i had settled my affairs , and left my effects in some safe hands behind me .
at first i thought of my old friend the widow , who i knew was honest , and would be just to me ; but then she was in years , and but poor , and , for aught i knew , might be in debt : so that , in a word , i had no way but to go back to england myself and take my effects with me .
it was some months , however , before i resolved upon this ; and , therefore , as i had rewarded the old captain fully , and to his satisfaction , who had been my former benefactor , so i began to think of the poor widow , whose husband had been my first benefactor , and she , while it was in her power , my faithful steward and instructor .
so , the first thing i did , i got a merchant in lisbon to write to his correspondent in london , not only to pay a bill , but to go find her out , and carry her , in money , a hundred pounds from me , and to talk with her , and comfort her in her poverty , by telling her she should , if i lived , have a further supply : at the same time i sent my two sisters in the country a hundred pounds each , they being , though not in want , yet not in very good circumstances ; one having been married and left a widow ; and the other having a husband not so kind to her as he should be .
but among all my relations or acquaintances i could not yet pitch upon one to whom i durst commit the gross of my stock , that i might go away to the brazils , and leave things safe behind me ; and this greatly perplexed me .
i had once a mind to have gone to the brazils and have settled myself there , for i was , as it were , naturalised to the place ; but i had some little scruple in my mind about religion , which insensibly drew me back . however , it was not religion that kept me from going there for the present ; and as i had made no scruple of being openly of the religion of the country all the while i was among them , so neither did i yet ; only that , now and then , having of late thought more of it than formerly , when i began to think of living and dying among them , i began to regret having professed myself a papist , and thought it might not be the best religion to die with .
but , as i have said , this was not the main thing that kept me from going to the brazils , but that really i did not know with whom to leave my effects behind me ; so i resolved at last to go to england , where , if i arrived , i concluded that i should make some acquaintance , or find some relations , that would be faithful to me ; and , accordingly , i prepared to go to england with all my wealth .
in order to prepare things for my going home , i first ( the brazil fleet being just going away ) resolved to give answers suitable to the just and faithful account of things i had from thence ; and , first , to the prior of st. augustine i wrote a letter full of thanks for his just dealings , and the offer of the eight hundred and seventy-two moidores which were undisposed of , which i desired might be given , five hundred to the monastery , and three hundred and seventy-two to the poor , as the prior should direct ; desiring the good padre 's prayers for me , and the like .
i wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees , with all the acknowledgment that so much justice and honesty called for : as for sending them any present , they were far above having any occasion of it .
lastly , i wrote to my partner , acknowledging his industry in the improving the plantation , and his integrity in increasing the stock of the works ; giving him instructions for his future government of my part , according to the powers i had left with my old patron , to whom i desired him to send whatever became due to me , till he should hear from me more particularly ; assuring him that it was my intention not only to come to him , but to settle myself there for the remainder of my life .
to this i added a very handsome present of some italian silks for his wife and two daughters , for such the captain 's son informed me he had ; with two pieces of fine english broadcloth , the best i could get in lisbon , five pieces of black baize , and some flanders lace of a good value .
having thus settled my affairs , sold my cargo , and turned all my effects into good bills of exchange , my next difficulty was which way to go to england : i had been accustomed enough to the sea , and yet i had a strange aversion to go to england by the sea at that time , and yet i could give no reason for it , yet the difficulty increased upon me so much , that though i had once shipped my baggage in order to go , yet i altered my mind , and that not once but two or three times .
it is true i had been very unfortunate by sea , and this might be one of the reasons ; but let no man slight the strong impulses of his own thoughts in cases of such moment : two of the ships which i had singled out to go in , i mean more particularly singled out than any other , having put my things on board one of them , and in the other having agreed with the captain ; i say two of these ships miscarried .
one was taken by the algerines , and the other was lost on the start , near torbay , and all the people drowned except three ; so that in either of those vessels i had been made miserable .
having been thus harassed in my thoughts , my old pilot , to whom i communicated everything , pressed me earnestly not to go by sea , but either to go by land to the groyne , and cross over the bay of biscay to rochelle , from whence it was but an easy and safe journey by land to paris , and so to calais and dover ; or to go up to madrid , and so all the way by land through france .
in a word , i was so prepossessed against my going by sea at all , except from calais to dover , that i resolved to travel all the way by land ; which , as i was not in haste , and did not value the charge , was by much the pleasanter way : and to make it more so , my old captain brought an english gentleman , the son of a merchant in lisbon , who was willing to travel with me ; after which we picked up two more english merchants also , and two young portuguese gentlemen , the last going to paris only ; so that in all there were six of us and five servants ; the two merchants and the two portuguese , contenting themselves with one servant between two , to save the charge ; and as for me , i got an english sailor to travel with me as a servant , besides my man friday , who was too much a stranger to be capable of supplying the place of a servant on the road .
in this manner i set out from lisbon ; and our company being very well mounted and armed , we made a little troop , whereof they did me the honour to call me captain , as well because i was the oldest man , as because i had two servants , and , indeed , was the origin of the whole journey .
as i have troubled you with none of my sea journals , so i shall trouble you now with none of my land journals ; but some adventures that happened to us in this tedious and difficult journey i must not omit .
when we came to madrid , we , being all of us strangers to spain , were willing to stay some time to see the court of spain , and what was worth observing ; but it being the latter part of the summer , we hastened away , and set out from madrid about the middle of october ; but when we came to the edge of navarre , we were alarmed , at several towns on the way , with an account that so much snow was falling on the french side of the mountains , that several travellers were obliged to come back to pampeluna , after having attempted at an extreme hazard to pass on .
when we came to pampeluna itself , we found it so indeed ; and to me , that had been always used to a hot climate , and to countries where i could scarce bear any clothes on , the cold was insufferable ; nor , indeed , was it more painful than surprising to come but ten days before out of old castile , where the weather was not only warm but very hot , and immediately to feel a wind from the pyrenean mountains so very keen , so severely cold , as to be intolerable and to endanger benumbing and perishing of our fingers and toes .
poor friday was really frightened when he saw the mountains all covered with snow , and felt cold weather , which he had never seen or felt before in his life .
to mend the matter , when we came to pampeluna it continued snowing with so much violence and so long , that the people said winter was come before its time ; and the roads , which were difficult before , were now quite impassable ; for , in a word , the snow lay in some places too thick for us to travel , and being not hard frozen , as is the case in the northern countries , there was no going without being in danger of being buried alive every step .
we stayed no less than twenty days at pampeluna ; when ( seeing the winter coming on , and no likelihood of its being better , for it was the severest winter all over europe that had been known in the memory of man ) i proposed that we should go away to fontarabia , and there take shipping for bordeaux , which was a very little voyage .
but , while i was considering this , there came in four french gentlemen , who , having been stopped on the french side of the passes , as we were on the spanish , had found out a guide , who , traversing the country near the head of languedoc , had brought them over the mountains by such ways that they were not much incommoded with the snow ; for where they met with snow in any quantity , they said it was frozen hard enough to bear them and their horses .
we sent for this guide , who told us he would undertake to carry us the same way , with no hazard from the snow , provided we were armed sufficiently to protect ourselves from wild beasts ; for , he said , in these great snows it was frequent for some wolves to show themselves at the foot of the mountains , being made ravenous for want of food , the ground being covered with snow . we told him we were well enough prepared for such creatures as they were , if he would insure us from a kind of two-legged wolves , which we were told we were in most danger from , especially on the french side of the mountains .
he satisfied us that there was no danger of that kind in the way that we were to go ; so we readily agreed to follow him , as did also twelve other gentlemen with their servants , some french , some spanish , who , as i said , had attempted to go , and were obliged to come back again .
accordingly , we set out from pampeluna with our guide on the 15th of november ; and indeed i was surprised when , instead of going forward , he came directly back with us on the same road that we came from madrid , about twenty miles ; when , having passed two rivers , and come into the plain country , we found ourselves in a warm climate again , where the country was pleasant , and no snow to be seen ; but , on a sudden , turning to his left , he approached the mountains another way ; and though it is true the hills and precipices looked dreadful , yet he made so many tours , such meanders , and led us by such winding ways , that we insensibly passed the height of the mountains without being much encumbered with the snow ; and all on a sudden he showed us the pleasant and fruitful provinces of languedoc and gascony , all green and flourishing , though at a great distance , and we had some rough way to pass still .
we were a little uneasy , however , when we found it snowed one whole day and a night so fast that we could not travel ; but he bid us be easy ; we should soon be past it all : we found , indeed , that we began to descend every day , and to come more north than before ; and so , depending upon our guide , we went on .
it was about two hours before night when , our guide being something before us , and not just in sight , out rushed three monstrous wolves , and after them a bear , from a hollow way adjoining to a thick wood ; two of the wolves made at the guide , and had he been far before us , he would have been devoured before we could have helped him ; one of them fastened upon his horse , and the other attacked the man with such violence , that he had not time , or presence of mind enough , to draw his pistol , but hallooed and cried out to us most lustily .
my man friday being next me , i bade him ride up and see what was the matter .
as soon as friday came in sight of the man , he hallooed out as loud as the other , " o master !
o master ! " but like a bold fellow , rode directly up to the poor man , and with his pistol shot the wolf in the head that attacked him .
it was happy for the poor man that it was my man friday ; for , having been used to such creatures in his country , he had no fear upon him , but went close up to him and shot him ; whereas , any other of us would have fired at a farther distance , and have perhaps either missed the wolf or endangered shooting the man .
but it was enough to have terrified a bolder man than i ; and , indeed , it alarmed all our company , when , with the noise of friday 's pistol , we heard on both sides the most dismal howling of wolves ; and the noise , redoubled by the echo of the mountains , appeared to us as if there had been a prodigious number of them ; and perhaps there was not such a few as that we had no cause of apprehension : however , as friday had killed this wolf , the other that had fastened upon the horse left him immediately , and fled , without doing him any damage , having happily fastened upon his head , where the bosses of the bridle had stuck in his teeth .
but the man was most hurt ; for the raging creature had bit him twice , once in the arm , and the other time a little above his knee ; and though he had made some defence , he was just tumbling down by the disorder of his horse , when friday came up and shot the wolf .
it is easy to suppose that at the noise of friday 's pistol we all mended our pace , and rode up as fast as the way , which was very difficult , would give us leave , to see what was the matter .
as soon as we came clear of the trees , which blinded us before , we saw clearly what had been the case , and how friday had disengaged the poor guide , though we did not presently discern what kind of creature it was he had killed .
but never was a fight managed so hardily , and in such a surprising manner as that which followed between friday and the bear , which gave us all , though at first we were surprised and afraid for him , the greatest diversion imaginable .
as the bear is a heavy , clumsy creature , and does not gallop as the wolf does , who is swift and light , so he has two particular qualities , which generally are the rule of his actions ; first , as to men , who are not his proper prey ( he does not usually attempt them , except they first attack him , unless he be excessively hungry , which it is probable might now be the case , the ground being covered with snow ) , if you do not meddle with him , he will not meddle with you ; but then you must take care to be very civil to him , and give him the road , for he is a very nice gentleman ; he will not go a step out of his way for a prince ; nay , if you are really afraid , your best way is to look another way and keep going on ; for sometimes if you stop , and stand still , and look steadfastly at him , he takes it for an affront ; but if you throw or toss anything at him , though it were but a bit of stick as big as your finger , he thinks himself abused , and sets all other business aside to pursue his revenge , and will have satisfaction in point of honour - that is his first quality : the next is , if he be once affronted , he will never leave you , night or day , till he has his revenge , but follows at a good round rate till he overtakes you .
my man friday had delivered our guide , and when we came up to him he was helping him off his horse , for the man was both hurt and frightened , when on a sudden we espied the bear come out of the wood ; and a monstrous one it was , the biggest by far that ever i saw .
we were all a little surprised when we saw him ; but when friday saw him , it was easy to see joy and courage in the fellow 's countenance . " o !
o !
o ! " says friday , three times , pointing to him ; " o master , you give me te leave , me shakee te hand with him ; me makee you good laugh . " i was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased .
" you fool , " says i , " he will eat you up . " - " eatee me up ! eatee me up ! " says friday , twice over again ; " me eatee him up ; me makee you good laugh ; you all stay here , me show you good laugh . "
so down he sits , and gets off his boots in a moment , and puts on a pair of pumps ( as we call the flat shoes they wear , and which he had in his pocket ) , gives my other servant his horse , and with his gun away he flew , swift like the wind .
the bear was walking softly on , and offered to meddle with nobody , till friday coming pretty near , calls to him , as if the bear could understand him . " hark ye , hark ye , " says friday , " me speakee with you . "
we followed at a distance , for now being down on the gascony side of the mountains , we were entered a vast forest , where the country was plain and pretty open , though it had many trees in it scattered here and there .
friday , who had , as we say , the heels of the bear , came up with him quickly , and took up a great stone , and threw it at him , and hit him just on the head , but did him no more harm than if he had thrown it against a wall ; but it answered friday 's end , for the rogue was so void of fear that he did it purely to make the bear follow him , and show us some laugh as he called it .
as soon as the bear felt the blow , and saw him , he turns about and comes after him , taking very long strides , and shuffling on at a strange rate , so as would have put a horse to a middling gallop ; away reins friday , and takes his course as if he ran towards us for help ; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear , and deliver my man ; though i was angry at him for bringing the bear back upon us , when he was going about his own business another way ; and especially i was angry that he had turned the bear upon us , and then ran away ; and i called out , " you dog ! is this your making us laugh ?
come away , and take your horse , that we may shoot the creature . "
he heard me , and cried out , " no shoot , no shoot ; stand still , and you get much laugh : " and as the nimble creature ran two feet for the bear 's one , he turned on a sudden on one side of us , and seeing a great oak-tree fit for his purpose , he beckoned to us to follow ; and doubling his pace , he got nimbly up the tree , laying his gun down upon the ground , at about five or six yards from the bottom of the tree .
the bear soon came to the tree , and we followed at a distance : the first thing he did he stopped at the gun , smelt at it , but let it lie , and up he scrambles into the tree , climbing like a cat , though so monstrous heavy .
i was amazed at the folly , as i thought it , of my man , and could not for my life see anything to laugh at , till seeing the bear get up the tree , we all rode near to him .
when we came to the tree , there was friday got out to the small end of a large branch , and the bear got about half-way to him .
as soon as the bear got out to that part where the limb of the tree was weaker , " ha ! " says he to us , " now you see me teachee the bear dance : " so he began jumping and shaking the bough , at which the bear began to totter , but stood still , and began to look behind him , to see how he should get back ; then , indeed , we did laugh heartily .
but friday had not done with him by a great deal ; when seeing him stand still , he called out to him again , as if he had supposed the bear could speak english , " what , you come no farther ? pray you come farther ; " so he left jumping and shaking the tree ; and the bear , just as if he understood what he said , did come a little farther ; then he began jumping again , and the bear stopped again .
we thought now was a good time to knock him in the head , and called to friday to stand still and we should shoot the bear : but he cried out earnestly , " oh , pray !
oh , pray ! no shoot , me shoot by and then : " he would have said by-and-by .
however , to shorten the story , friday danced so much , and the bear stood so ticklish , that we had laughing enough , but still could not imagine what the fellow would do : for first we thought he depended upon shaking the bear off ; and we found the bear was too cunning for that too ; for he would not go out far enough to be thrown down , but clung fast with his great broad claws and feet , so that we could not imagine what would be the end of it , and what the jest would be at last .
but friday put us out of doubt quickly : for seeing the bear cling fast to the bough , and that he would not be persuaded to come any farther , " well , well , " says friday , " you no come farther , me go ; you no come to me , me come to you ; " and upon this he went out to the smaller end , where it would bend with his weight , and gently let himself down by it , sliding down the bough till he came near enough to jump down on his feet , and away he ran to his gun , took it up , and stood still . " well , " said i to him , " friday , what will you do now ?
why don 't you shoot him ? " " no shoot , " says friday , " no yet ; me shoot now , me no kill ; me stay , give you one more laugh : " and , indeed , so he did ; for when the bear saw his enemy gone , he came back from the bough , where he stood , but did it very cautiously , looking behind him every step , and coming backward till he got into the body of the tree , then , with the same hinder end foremost , he came down the tree , grasping it with his claws , and moving one foot at a time , very leisurely .
at this juncture , and just before he could set his hind foot on the ground , friday stepped up close to him , clapped the muzzle of his piece into his ear , and shot him dead .
then the rogue turned about to see if we did not laugh ; and when he saw we were pleased by our looks , he began to laugh very loud .
" so we kill bear in my country , " says friday . " so you kill them ? " says i ; " why , you have no guns . " - " no , " says he , " no gun , but shoot great much long arrow . "
this was a good diversion to us ; but we were still in a wild place , and our guide very much hurt , and what to do we hardly knew ; the howling of wolves ran much in my head ; and , indeed , except the noise i once heard on the shore of africa , of which i have said something already , i never heard anything that filled me with so much horror .
these things , and the approach of night , called us off , or else , as friday would have had us , we should certainly have taken the skin of this monstrous creature off , which was worth saving ; but we had near three leagues to go , and our guide hastened us ; so we left him , and went forward on our journey .
the ground was still covered with snow , though not so deep and dangerous as on the mountains ; and the ravenous creatures , as we heard afterwards , were come down into the forest and plain country , pressed by hunger , to seek for food , and had done a great deal of mischief in the villages , where they surprised the country people , killed a great many of their sheep and horses , and some people too .
we had one dangerous place to pass , and our guide told us if there were more wolves in the country we should find them there ; and this was a small plain , surrounded with woods on every side , and a long , narrow defile , or lane , which we were to pass to get through the wood , and then we should come to the village where we were to lodge .
it was within half-an-hour of sunset when we entered the wood , and a little after sunset when we came into the plain : we met with nothing in the first wood , except that in a little plain within the wood , which was not above two furlongs over , we saw five great wolves cross the road , full speed , one after another , as if they had been in chase of some prey , and had it in view ; they took no notice of us , and were gone out of sight in a few moments .
upon this , our guide , who , by the way , was but a fainthearted fellow , bid us keep in a ready posture , for he believed there were more wolves a-coming .
we kept our arms ready , and our eyes about us ; but we saw no more wolves till we came through that wood , which was near half a league , and entered the plain .
as soon as we came into the plain , we had occasion enough to look about us .
the first object we met with was a dead horse ; that is to say , a poor horse which the wolves had killed , and at least a dozen of them at work , we could not say eating him , but picking his bones rather ; for they had eaten up all the flesh before .
we did not think fit to disturb them at their feast , neither did they take much notice of us .
friday would have let fly at them , but i would not suffer him by any means ; for i found we were like to have more business upon our hands than we were aware of .
we had not gone half over the plain when we began to hear the wolves howl in the wood on our left in a frightful manner , and presently after we saw about a hundred coming on directly towards us , all in a body , and most of them in a line , as regularly as an army drawn up by experienced officers .
i scarce knew in what manner to receive them , but found to draw ourselves in a close line was the only way ; so we formed in a moment ; but that we might not have too much interval , i ordered that only every other man should fire , and that the others , who had not fired , should stand ready to give them a second volley immediately , if they continued to advance upon us ; and then that those that had fired at first should not pretend to load their fusees again , but stand ready , every one with a pistol , for we were all armed with a fusee and a pair of pistols each man ; so we were , by this method , able to fire six volleys , half of us at a time ; however , at present we had no necessity ; for upon firing the first volley , the enemy made a full stop , being terrified as well with the noise as with the fire .
four of them being shot in the head , dropped ; several others were wounded , and went bleeding off , as we could see by the snow .
i found they stopped , but did not immediately retreat ; whereupon , remembering that i had been told that the fiercest creatures were terrified at the voice of a man , i caused all the company to halloo as loud as they could ; and i found the notion not altogether mistaken ; for upon our shout they began to retire and turn about .
i then ordered a second volley to be fired in their rear , which put them to the gallop , and away they went to the woods .
this gave us leisure to charge our pieces again ; and that we might lose no time , we kept going ; but we had but little more than loaded our fusees , and put ourselves in readiness , when we heard a terrible noise in the same wood on our left , only that it was farther onward , the same way we were to go .
the night was coming on , and the light began to be dusky , which made it worse on our side ; but the noise increasing , we could easily perceive that it was the howling and yelling of those hellish creatures ; and on a sudden we perceived three troops of wolves , one on our left , one behind us , and one in our front , so that we seemed to be surrounded with them : however , as they did not fall upon us , we kept our way forward , as fast as we could make our horses go , which , the way being very rough , was only a good hard trot .
in this manner , we came in view of the entrance of a wood , through which we were to pass , at the farther side of the plain ; but we were greatly surprised , when coming nearer the lane or pass , we saw a confused number of wolves standing just at the entrance .
on a sudden , at another opening of the wood , we heard the noise of a gun , and looking that way , out rushed a horse , with a saddle and a bridle on him , flying like the wind , and sixteen or seventeen wolves after him , full speed : the horse had the advantage of them ; but as we supposed that he could not hold it at that rate , we doubted not but they would get up with him at last : no question but they did .
but here we had a most horrible sight ; for riding up to the entrance where the horse came out , we found the carcasses of another horse and of two men , devoured by the ravenous creatures ; and one of the men was no doubt the same whom we heard fire the gun , for there lay a gun just by him fired off ; but as to the man , his head and the upper part of his body was eaten up .
this filled us with horror , and we knew not what course to take ; but the creatures resolved us soon , for they gathered about us presently , in hopes of prey ; and i verily believe there were three hundred of them .
it happened , very much to our advantage , that at the entrance into the wood , but a little way from it , there lay some large timber-trees , which had been cut down the summer before , and i suppose lay there for carriage .
i drew my little troop in among those trees , and placing ourselves in a line behind one long tree , i advised them all to alight , and keeping that tree before us for a breastwork , to stand in a triangle , or three fronts , enclosing our horses in the centre .
we did so , and it was well we did ; for never was a more furious charge than the creatures made upon us in this place . they came on with a growling kind of noise , and mounted the piece of timber , which , as i said , was our breastwork , as if they were only rushing upon their prey ; and this fury of theirs , it seems , was principally occasioned by their seeing our horses behind us .
i ordered our men to fire as before , every other man ; and they took their aim so sure that they killed several of the wolves at the first volley ; but there was a necessity to keep a continual firing , for they came on like devils , those behind pushing on those before .
when we had fired a second volley of our fusees , we thought they stopped a little , and i hoped they would have gone off , but it was but a moment , for others came forward again ; so we fired two volleys of our pistols ; and i believe in these four firings we had killed seventeen or eighteen of them , and lamed twice as many , yet they came on again .
i was loth to spend our shot too hastily ; so i called my servant , not my man friday , for he was better employed , for , with the greatest dexterity imaginable , he had charged my fusee and his own while we were engaged - but , as i said , i called my other man , and giving him a horn of powder , i had him lay a train all along the piece of timber , and let it be a large train .
he did so , and had but just time to get away , when the wolves came up to it , and some got upon it , when i , snapping an unchanged pistol close to the powder , set it on fire ; those that were upon the timber were scorched with it , and six or seven of them fell ; or rather jumped in among us with the force and fright of the fire ; we despatched these in an instant , and the rest were so frightened with the light , which the night - for it was now very near dark - made more terrible that they drew back a little ; upon which i ordered our last pistols to be fired off in one volley , and after that we gave a shout ; upon this the wolves turned tail , and we sallied immediately upon near twenty lame ones that we found struggling on the ground , and fell to cutting them with our swords , which answered our expectation , for the crying and howling they made was better understood by their fellows ; so that they all fled and left us .
we had , first and last , killed about threescore of them , and had it been daylight we had killed many more .
the field of battle being thus cleared , we made forward again , for we had still near a league to go .
we heard the ravenous creatures howl and yell in the woods as we went several times , and sometimes we fancied we saw some of them ; but the snow dazzling our eyes , we were not certain .
in about an hour more we came to the town where we were to lodge , which we found in a terrible fright and all in arms ; for , it seems , the night before the wolves and some bears had broken into the village , and put them in such terror that they were obliged to keep guard night and day , but especially in the night , to preserve their cattle , and indeed their people .
the next morning our guide was so ill , and his limbs swelled so much with the rankling of his two wounds , that he could go no farther ; so we were obliged to take a new guide here , and go to toulouse , where we found a warm climate , a fruitful , pleasant country , and no snow , no wolves , nor anything like them ; but when we told our story at toulouse , they told us it was nothing but what was ordinary in the great forest at the foot of the mountains , especially when the snow lay on the ground ; but they inquired much what kind of guide we had got who would venture to bring us that way in such a severe season , and told us it was surprising we were not all devoured .
when we told them how we placed ourselves and the horses in the middle , they blamed us exceedingly , and told us it was fifty to one but we had been all destroyed , for it was the sight of the horses which made the wolves so furious , seeing their prey , and that at other times they are really afraid of a gun ; but being excessively hungry , and raging on that account , the eagerness to come at the horses had made them senseless of danger , and that if we had not by the continual fire , and at last by the stratagem of the train of powder , mastered them , it had been great odds but that we had been torn to pieces ; whereas , had we been content to have sat still on horseback , and fired as horsemen , they would not have taken the horses so much for their own , when men were on their backs , as otherwise ; and withal , they told us that at last , if we had stood altogether , and left our horses , they would have been so eager to have devoured them , that we might have come off safe , especially having our firearms in our hands , being so many in number .
for my part , i was never so sensible of danger in my life ; for , seeing above three hundred devils come roaring and open-mouthed to devour us , and having nothing to shelter us or retreat to , i gave myself over for lost ; and , as it was , i believe i shall never care to cross those mountains again : i think i would much rather go a thousand leagues by sea , though i was sure to meet with a storm once a-week .
i have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my passage through france - nothing but what other travellers have given an account of with much more advantage than i can .
i travelled from toulouse to paris , and without any considerable stay came to calais , and landed safe at dover the 14th of january , after having had a severe cold season to travel in .
i was now come to the centre of my travels , and had in a little time all my new-discovered estate safe about me , the bills of exchange which i brought with me having been currently paid .
my principal guide and privy-counsellor was my good ancient widow , who , in gratitude for the money i had sent her , thought no pains too much nor care too great to employ for me ; and i trusted her so entirely that i was perfectly easy as to the security of my effects ; and , indeed , i was very happy from the beginning , and now to the end , in the unspotted integrity of this good gentlewoman .
and now , having resolved to dispose of my plantation in the brazils , i wrote to my old friend at lisbon , who , having offered it to the two merchants , the survivors of my trustees , who lived in the brazils , they accepted the offer , and remitted thirty-three thousand pieces of eight to a correspondent of theirs at lisbon to pay for it .
in return , i signed the instrument of sale in the form which they sent from lisbon , and sent it to my old man , who sent me the bills of exchange for thirty-two thousand eight hundred pieces of eight for the estate , reserving the payment of one hundred moidores a year to him ( the old man ) during his life , and fifty moidores afterwards to his son for his life , which i had promised them , and which the plantation was to make good as a rent-charge .
and thus i have given the first part of a life of fortune and adventure - a life of providence 's chequer-work , and of a variety which the world will seldom be able to show the like of ; beginning foolishly , but closing much more happily than any part of it ever gave me leave so much as to hope for .
any one would think that in this state of complicated good fortune i was past running any more hazards - and so , indeed , i had been , if other circumstances had concurred ; but i was inured to a wandering life , had no family , nor many relations ; nor , however rich , had i contracted fresh acquaintance ; and though i had sold my estate in the brazils , yet i could not keep that country out of my head , and had a great mind to be upon the wing again ; especially i could not resist the strong inclination i had to see my island , and to know if the poor spaniards were in being there .
my true friend , the widow , earnestly dissuaded me from it , and so far prevailed with me , that for almost seven years she prevented my running abroad , during which time i took my two nephews , the children of one of my brothers , into my care ; the eldest , having something of his own , i bred up as a gentleman , and gave him a settlement of some addition to his estate after my decease .
the other i placed with the captain of a ship ; and after five years , finding him a sensible , bold , enterprising young fellow , i put him into a good ship , and sent him to sea ; and this young fellow afterwards drew me in , as old as i was , to further adventures myself .
in the meantime , i in part settled myself here ; for , first of all , i married , and that not either to my disadvantage or dissatisfaction , and had three children , two sons and one daughter ; but my wife dying , and my nephew coming home with good success from a voyage to spain , my inclination to go abroad , and his importunity , prevailed , and engaged me to go in his ship as a private trader to the east indies ; this was in the year 1694 .
in this voyage i visited my new colony in the island , saw my successors the spaniards , had the old story of their lives and of the villains i left there ; how at first they insulted the poor spaniards , how they afterwards agreed , disagreed , united , separated , and how at last the spaniards were obliged to use violence with them ; how they were subjected to the spaniards , how honestly the spaniards used them - a history , if it were entered into , as full of variety and wonderful accidents as my own part - particularly , also , as to their battles with the caribbeans , who landed several times upon the island , and as to the improvement they made upon the island itself , and how five of them made an attempt upon the mainland , and brought away eleven men and five women prisoners , by which , at my coming , i found about twenty young children on the island .
here i stayed about twenty days , left them supplies of all necessary things , and particularly of arms , powder , shot , clothes , tools , and two workmen , which i had brought from england with me , viz. a carpenter and a smith .
besides this , i shared the lands into parts with them , reserved to myself the property of the whole , but gave them such parts respectively as they agreed on ; and having settled all things with them , and engaged them not to leave the place , i left them there .
from thence i touched at the brazils , from whence i sent a bark , which i bought there , with more people to the island ; and in it , besides other supplies , i sent seven women , being such as i found proper for service , or for wives to such as would take them .
as to the englishmen , i promised to send them some women from england , with a good cargo of necessaries , if they would apply themselves to planting - which i afterwards could not perform .
the fellows proved very honest and diligent after they were mastered and had their properties set apart for them .
i sent them , also , from the brazils , five cows , three of them being big with calf , some sheep , and some hogs , which when i came again were considerably increased .
but all these things , with an account how three hundred caribbees came and invaded them , and ruined their plantations , and how they fought with that whole number twice , and were at first defeated , and one of them killed ; but at last , a storm destroying their enemies ' canoes , they famished or destroyed almost all the rest , and renewed and recovered the possession of their plantation , and still lived upon the island .
all these things , with some very surprising incidents in some new adventures of my own , for ten years more , i shall give a farther account of in the second part of my story .
a study in scarlet
sir arthur conan doyle
part i .
( being a reprint from the reminiscences of john h. watson , m.d. , late of the army medical department . ) 2
chapter i. mr. sherlock holmes .
in the year 1878 i took my degree of doctor of medicine of the university of london , and proceeded to netley to go through the course prescribed for surgeons in the army . having completed my studies there , i was duly attached to the fifth northumberland fusiliers as assistant surgeon .
the regiment was stationed in india at the time , and before i could join it , the second afghan war had broken out .
on landing at bombay , i learned that my corps had advanced through the passes , and was already deep in the enemy 's country .
i followed , however , with many other officers who were in the same situation as myself , and succeeded in reaching candahar in safety , where i found my regiment , and at once entered upon my new duties .
the campaign brought honours and promotion to many , but for me it had nothing but misfortune and disaster .
i was removed from my brigade and attached to the berkshires , with whom i served at the fatal battle of maiwand . there i was struck on the shoulder by a jezail bullet , which shattered the bone and grazed the subclavian artery .
i should have fallen into the hands of the murderous ghazis had it not been for the devotion and courage shown by murray , my orderly , who threw me across a pack-horse , and succeeded in bringing me safely to the british lines .
worn with pain , and weak from the prolonged hardships which i had undergone , i was removed , with a great train of wounded sufferers , to the base hospital at peshawar .
here i rallied , and had already improved so far as to be able to walk about the wards , and even to bask a little upon the verandah , when i was struck down by enteric fever , that curse of our indian possessions .
for months my life was despaired of , and when at last i came to myself and became convalescent , i was so weak and emaciated that a medical board determined that not a day should be lost in sending me back to england .
i was dispatched , accordingly , in the troopship " orontes , " and landed a month later on portsmouth jetty , with my health irretrievably ruined , but with permission from a paternal government to spend the next nine months in attempting to improve it .
i had neither kith nor kin in england , and was therefore as free as air - or as free as an income of eleven shillings and sixpence a day will permit a man to be . under such circumstances , i naturally gravitated to london , that great cesspool into which all the loungers and idlers of the empire are irresistibly drained .
there i stayed for some time at a private hotel in the strand , leading a comfortless , meaningless existence , and spending such money as i had , considerably more freely than i ought .
so alarming did the state of my finances become , that i soon realized that i must either leave the metropolis and rusticate somewhere in the country , or that i must make a complete alteration in my style of living .
choosing the latter alternative , i began by making up my mind to leave the hotel , and to take up my quarters in some less pretentious and less expensive domicile .
on the very day that i had come to this conclusion , i was standing at the criterion bar , when some one tapped me on the shoulder , and turning round i recognized young stamford , who had been a dresser under me at barts .
the sight of a friendly face in the great wilderness of london is a pleasant thing indeed to a lonely man .
in old days stamford had never been a particular crony of mine , but now i hailed him with enthusiasm , and he , in his turn , appeared to be delighted to see me .
in the exuberance of my joy , i asked him to lunch with me at the holborn , and we started off together in a hansom .
" whatever have you been doing with yourself , watson ? " he asked in undisguised wonder , as we rattled through the crowded london streets .
" you are as thin as a lath and as brown as a nut . "
i gave him a short sketch of my adventures , and had hardly concluded it by the time that we reached our destination .
" poor devil ! " he said , commiseratingly , after he had listened to my misfortunes . " what are you up to now ? "
" looking for lodgings . " - i answered . " trying to solve the problem as to whether it is possible to get comfortable rooms at a reasonable price . "
" that 's a strange thing , " remarked my companion ; " you are the second man to-day that has used that expression to me . "
" and who was the first ? " i asked .
" a fellow who is working at the chemical laboratory up at the hospital .
he was bemoaning himself this morning because he could not get someone to go halves with him in some nice rooms which he had found , and which were too much for his purse . "
" by jove ! " i cried , " if he really wants someone to share the rooms and the expense , i am the very man for him .
i should prefer having a partner to being alone . "
young stamford looked rather strangely at me over his wine-glass .
" you don 't know sherlock holmes yet , " he said ; " perhaps you would not care for him as a constant companion . "
" why , what is there against him ? "
" oh , i didn 't say there was anything against him .
he is a little queer in his ideas - an enthusiast in some branches of science .
as far as i know he is a decent fellow enough . "
" a medical student , i suppose ? " said i .
" no - i have no idea what he intends to go in for .
i believe he is well up in anatomy , and he is a first-class chemist ; but , as far as i know , he has never taken out any systematic medical classes .
his studies are very desultory and eccentric , but he has amassed a lot of out-of-the way knowledge which would astonish his professors . "
" did you never ask him what he was going in for ? " i asked .
" no ; he is not a man that it is easy to draw out , though he can be communicative enough when the fancy seizes him . "
" i should like to meet him , " i said .
" if i am to lodge with anyone , i should prefer a man of studious and quiet habits .
i am not strong enough yet to stand much noise or excitement . i had enough of both in afghanistan to last me for the remainder of my natural existence .
how could i meet this friend of yours ? "
" he is sure to be at the laboratory , " returned my companion . " he either avoids the place for weeks , or else he works there from morning to night .
if you like , we shall drive round together after luncheon . "
" certainly , " i answered , and the conversation drifted away into other channels .
as we made our way to the hospital after leaving the holborn , stamford gave me a few more particulars about the gentleman whom i proposed to take as a fellow-lodger .
" you mustn 't blame me if you don 't get on with him , " he said ; " i know nothing more of him than i have learned from meeting him occasionally in the laboratory .
you proposed this arrangement , so you must not hold me responsible . "
" if we don 't get on it will be easy to part company , " i answered .
" it seems to me , stamford , " i added , looking hard at my companion , " that you have some reason for washing your hands of the matter .
is this fellow 's temper so formidable , or what is it ?
don 't be mealy-mouthed about it . "
" it is not easy to express the inexpressible , " he answered with a laugh .
" holmes is a little too scientific for my tastes - it approaches to cold-bloodedness .
i could imagine his giving a friend a little pinch of the latest vegetable alkaloid , not out of malevolence , you understand , but simply out of a spirit of inquiry in order to have an accurate idea of the effects .
to do him justice , i think that he would take it himself with the same readiness .
he appears to have a passion for definite and exact knowledge . "
" very right too . "
" yes , but it may be pushed to excess . when it comes to beating the subjects in the dissecting-rooms with a stick , it is certainly taking rather a bizarre shape . "
" beating the subjects ! "
" yes , to verify how far bruises may be produced after death . i saw him at it with my own eyes . "
" and yet you say he is not a medical student ? "
" no . heaven knows what the objects of his studies are .
but here we are , and you must form your own impressions about him . "
as he spoke , we turned down a narrow lane and passed through a small side-door , which opened into a wing of the great hospital .
it was familiar ground to me , and i needed no guiding as we ascended the bleak stone staircase and made our way down the long corridor with its vista of whitewashed wall and dun-coloured doors .
near the further end a low arched passage branched away from it and led to the chemical laboratory .
this was a lofty chamber , lined and littered with countless bottles .
broad , low tables were scattered about , which bristled with retorts , test-tubes , and little bunsen lamps , with their blue flickering flames . there was only one student in the room , who was bending over a distant table absorbed in his work .
at the sound of our steps he glanced round and sprang to his feet with a cry of pleasure .
" i 've found it ! i 've found it , " he shouted to my companion , running towards us with a test-tube in his hand .
" i have found a re-agent which is precipitated by hoemoglobin , 4 and by nothing else . "
had he discovered a gold mine , greater delight could not have shone upon his features .
watson , mr. sherlock holmes , " said stamford , introducing us .
" how are you ? " he said cordially , gripping my hand with a strength for which i should hardly have given him credit .
" you have been in afghanistan , i perceive . "
" how on earth did you know that ? " i asked in astonishment .
" never mind , " said he , chuckling to himself .
" the question now is about hoemoglobin .
no doubt you see the significance of this discovery of mine ? "
" it is interesting , chemically , no doubt , " i answered , " but practically - - "
" why , man , it is the most practical medico-legal discovery for years . don 't you see that it gives us an infallible test for blood stains .
come over here now ! " he seized me by the coat-sleeve in his eagerness , and drew me over to the table at which he had been working .
" let us have some fresh blood , " he said , digging a long bodkin into his finger , and drawing off the resulting drop of blood in a chemical pipette . " now , i add this small quantity of blood to a litre of water .
you perceive that the resulting mixture has the appearance of pure water .
the proportion of blood cannot be more than one in a million . i have no doubt , however , that we shall be able to obtain the characteristic reaction . "
as he spoke , he threw into the vessel a few white crystals , and then added some drops of a transparent fluid .
in an instant the contents assumed a dull mahogany colour , and a brownish dust was precipitated to the bottom of the glass jar .
" ha ! ha ! " he cried , clapping his hands , and looking as delighted as a child with a new toy .
" what do you think of that ? "
" it seems to be a very delicate test , " i remarked .
" beautiful ! beautiful !
the old guiacum test was very clumsy and uncertain .
so is the microscopic examination for blood corpuscles . the latter is valueless if the stains are a few hours old .
now , this appears to act as well whether the blood is old or new . had this test been invented , there are hundreds of men now walking the earth who would long ago have paid the penalty of their crimes . "
" indeed ! " i murmured .
" criminal cases are continually hinging upon that one point . a man is suspected of a crime months perhaps after it has been committed .
his linen or clothes are examined , and brownish stains discovered upon them . are they blood stains , or mud stains , or rust stains , or fruit stains , or what are they ?
that is a question which has puzzled many an expert , and why ?
because there was no reliable test .
now we have the sherlock holmes ' test , and there will no longer be any difficulty . "
his eyes fairly glittered as he spoke , and he put his hand over his heart and bowed as if to some applauding crowd conjured up by his imagination .
" you are to be congratulated , " i remarked , considerably surprised at his enthusiasm .
" there was the case of von bischoff at frankfort last year .
he would certainly have been hung had this test been in existence .
then there was mason of bradford , and the notorious muller , and lefevre of montpellier , and samson of new orleans .
i could name a score of cases in which it would have been decisive . "
" you seem to be a walking calendar of crime , " said stamford with a laugh . " you might start a paper on those lines .
" very interesting reading it might be made , too , " remarked sherlock holmes , sticking a small piece of plaster over the prick on his finger . " i have to be careful , " he continued , turning to me with a smile , " for i dabble with poisons a good deal . "
he held out his hand as he spoke , and i noticed that it was all mottled over with similar pieces of plaster , and discoloured with strong acids .
" we came here on business , " said stamford , sitting down on a high three-legged stool , and pushing another one in my direction with his foot .
" my friend here wants to take diggings , and as you were complaining that you could get no one to go halves with you , i thought that i had better bring you together . "
sherlock holmes seemed delighted at the idea of sharing his rooms with me . " i have my eye on a suite in baker street , " he said , " which would suit us down to the ground .
you don 't mind the smell of strong tobacco , i hope ? "
" i always smoke ' ship 's ' myself , " i answered .
" that 's good enough .
i generally have chemicals about , and occasionally do experiments . would that annoy you ? "
" by no means . "
" let me see - what are my other shortcomings .
i get in the dumps at times , and don 't open my mouth for days on end .
you must not think i am sulky when i do that . just let me alone , and i 'll soon be right .
what have you to confess now ?
it 's just as well for two fellows to know the worst of one another before they begin to live together . "
i laughed at this cross-examination . " i keep a bull pup , " i said , " and i object to rows because my nerves are shaken , and i get up at all sorts of ungodly hours , and i am extremely lazy .
i have another set of vices when i 'm well , but those are the principal ones at present . "
" do you include violin-playing in your category of rows ? " he asked , anxiously .
" it depends on the player , " i answered . " a well-played violin is a treat for the gods - a badly-played one - - "
" oh , that 's all right , " he cried , with a merry laugh . " i think we may consider the thing as settled - that is , if the rooms are agreeable to you . "
" when shall we see them ? "
" call for me here at noon to-morrow , and we 'll go together and settle everything , " he answered .
" all right - noon exactly , " said i , shaking his hand .
we left him working among his chemicals , and we walked together towards my hotel .
" by the way , " i asked suddenly , stopping and turning upon stamford , " how the deuce did he know that i had come from afghanistan ? "
my companion smiled an enigmatical smile .
" that 's just his little peculiarity , " he said . " a good many people have wanted to know how he finds things out . "
" oh ! a mystery is it ? " i cried , rubbing my hands .
" this is very piquant . i am much obliged to you for bringing us together .
'the proper study of mankind is man , ' you know . "
" you must study him , then , " stamford said , as he bade me good-bye .
" you 'll find him a knotty problem , though . i 'll wager he learns more about you than you about him .
good-bye . "
" good-bye , " i answered , and strolled on to my hotel , considerably interested in my new acquaintance .
chapter ii . the science of deduction .
we met next day as he had arranged , and inspected the rooms at no. 221b , 5 baker street , of which he had spoken at our meeting .
they consisted of a couple of comfortable bed-rooms and a single large airy sitting-room , cheerfully furnished , and illuminated by two broad windows .
so desirable in every way were the apartments , and so moderate did the terms seem when divided between us , that the bargain was concluded upon the spot , and we at once entered into possession . that very evening i moved my things round from the hotel , and on the following morning sherlock holmes followed me with several boxes and portmanteaus .
for a day or two we were busily employed in unpacking and laying out our property to the best advantage .
that done , we gradually began to settle down and to accommodate ourselves to our new surroundings .
holmes was certainly not a difficult man to live with . he was quiet in his ways , and his habits were regular .
it was rare for him to be up after ten at night , and he had invariably breakfasted and gone out before i rose in the morning . sometimes he spent his day at the chemical laboratory , sometimes in the dissecting-rooms , and occasionally in long walks , which appeared to take him into the lowest portions of the city .
nothing could exceed his energy when the working fit was upon him ; but now and again a reaction would seize him , and for days on end he would lie upon the sofa in the sitting-room , hardly uttering a word or moving a muscle from morning to night .
on these occasions i have noticed such a dreamy , vacant expression in his eyes , that i might have suspected him of being addicted to the use of some narcotic , had not the temperance and cleanliness of his whole life forbidden such a notion .
as the weeks went by , my interest in him and my curiosity as to his aims in life , gradually deepened and increased .
his very person and appearance were such as to strike the attention of the most casual observer .
in height he was rather over six feet , and so excessively lean that he seemed to be considerably taller .
his eyes were sharp and piercing , save during those intervals of torpor to which i have alluded ; and his thin , hawk-like nose gave his whole expression an air of alertness and decision .
his chin , too , had the prominence and squareness which mark the man of determination .
his hands were invariably blotted with ink and stained with chemicals , yet he was possessed of extraordinary delicacy of touch , as i frequently had occasion to observe when i watched him manipulating his fragile philosophical instruments .
the reader may set me down as a hopeless busybody , when i confess how much this man stimulated my curiosity , and how often i endeavoured to break through the reticence which he showed on all that concerned himself .
before pronouncing judgment , however , be it remembered , how objectless was my life , and how little there was to engage my attention .
my health forbade me from venturing out unless the weather was exceptionally genial , and i had no friends who would call upon me and break the monotony of my daily existence .
under these circumstances , i eagerly hailed the little mystery which hung around my companion , and spent much of my time in endeavouring to unravel it .
he was not studying medicine .
he had himself , in reply to a question , confirmed stamford 's opinion upon that point .
neither did he appear to have pursued any course of reading which might fit him for a degree in science or any other recognized portal which would give him an entrance into the learned world .
yet his zeal for certain studies was remarkable , and within eccentric limits his knowledge was so extraordinarily ample and minute that his observations have fairly astounded me .
surely no man would work so hard or attain such precise information unless he had some definite end in view .
desultory readers are seldom remarkable for the exactness of their learning .
no man burdens his mind with small matters unless he has some very good reason for doing so .
his ignorance was as remarkable as his knowledge .
of contemporary literature , philosophy and politics he appeared to know next to nothing .
upon my quoting thomas carlyle , he inquired in the naivest way who he might be and what he had done .
my surprise reached a climax , however , when i found incidentally that he was ignorant of the copernican theory and of the composition of the solar system .
that any civilized human being in this nineteenth century should not be aware that the earth travelled round the sun appeared to be to me such an extraordinary fact that i could hardly realize it .
" you appear to be astonished , " he said , smiling at my expression of surprise .
" now that i do know it i shall do my best to forget it . "
" to forget it ! "
" you see , " he explained , " i consider that a man 's brain originally is like a little empty attic , and you have to stock it with such furniture as you choose .
a fool takes in all the lumber of every sort that he comes across , so that the knowledge which might be useful to him gets crowded out , or at best is jumbled up with a lot of other things so that he has a difficulty in laying his hands upon it .
now the skilful workman is very careful indeed as to what he takes into his brain-attic .
he will have nothing but the tools which may help him in doing his work , but of these he has a large assortment , and all in the most perfect order .
it is a mistake to think that that little room has elastic walls and can distend to any extent .
depend upon it there comes a time when for every addition of knowledge you forget something that you knew before .
it is of the highest importance , therefore , not to have useless facts elbowing out the useful ones . "
" but the solar system ! " i protested .
" what the deuce is it to me ? " he interrupted impatiently ; " you say that we go round the sun . if we went round the moon it would not make a pennyworth of difference to me or to my work . "
i was on the point of asking him what that work might be , but something in his manner showed me that the question would be an unwelcome one .
i pondered over our short conversation , however , and endeavoured to draw my deductions from it .
he said that he would acquire no knowledge which did not bear upon his object .
therefore all the knowledge which he possessed was such as would be useful to him .
i enumerated in my own mind all the various points upon which he had shown me that he was exceptionally well-informed . i even took a pencil and jotted them down .
i could not help smiling at the document when i had completed it .
it ran in this way -
sherlock holmes - his limits .
1 .
knowledge of literature . - nil .
2 . philosophy . - nil .
3 . astronomy . - nil .
4 .
politics . - feeble .
5 .
botany . - variable .
well up in belladonna , opium , and poisons generally . knows nothing of practical gardening .
6 . geology . - practical , but limited .
tells at a glance different soils from each other . after walks has shown me splashes upon his trousers , and told me by their colour and consistence in what part of london he had received them .
7 .
chemistry . - profound .
8 .
anatomy . - accurate , but unsystematic .
9 . sensational literature . - immense .
he appears to know every detail of every horror perpetrated in the century .
10 . plays the violin well .
11 . is an expert singlestick player , boxer , and swordsman .
12 . has a good practical knowledge of british law .
when i had got so far in my list i threw it into the fire in despair .
" if i can only find what the fellow is driving at by reconciling all these accomplishments , and discovering a calling which needs them all , " i said to myself , " i may as well give up the attempt at once . "
i see that i have alluded above to his powers upon the violin .
these were very remarkable , but as eccentric as all his other accomplishments .
that he could play pieces , and difficult pieces , i knew well , because at my request he has played me some of mendelssohn 's lieder , and other favourites .
when left to himself , however , he would seldom produce any music or attempt any recognized air .
leaning back in his arm-chair of an evening , he would close his eyes and scrape carelessly at the fiddle which was thrown across his knee .
sometimes the chords were sonorous and melancholy . occasionally they were fantastic and cheerful .
clearly they reflected the thoughts which possessed him , but whether the music aided those thoughts , or whether the playing was simply the result of a whim or fancy was more than i could determine .
i might have rebelled against these exasperating solos had it not been that he usually terminated them by playing in quick succession a whole series of my favourite airs as a slight compensation for the trial upon my patience .
during the first week or so we had no callers , and i had begun to think that my companion was as friendless a man as i was myself . presently , however , i found that he had many acquaintances , and those in the most different classes of society .
there was one little sallow rat-faced , dark-eyed fellow who was introduced to me as mr. lestrade , and who came three or four times in a single week .
one morning a young girl called , fashionably dressed , and stayed for half an hour or more .
the same afternoon brought a grey-headed , seedy visitor , looking like a jew pedlar , who appeared to me to be much excited , and who was closely followed by a slip-shod elderly woman .
on another occasion an old white-haired gentleman had an interview with my companion ; and on another a railway porter in his velveteen uniform .
when any of these nondescript individuals put in an appearance , sherlock holmes used to beg for the use of the sitting-room , and i would retire to my bed-room .
he always apologized to me for putting me to this inconvenience . " i have to use this room as a place of business , " he said , " and these people are my clients . "
again i had an opportunity of asking him a point blank question , and again my delicacy prevented me from forcing another man to confide in me .
i imagined at the time that he had some strong reason for not alluding to it , but he soon dispelled the idea by coming round to the subject of his own accord .
it was upon the 4th of march , as i have good reason to remember , that i rose somewhat earlier than usual , and found that sherlock holmes had not yet finished his breakfast .
the landlady had become so accustomed to my late habits that my place had not been laid nor my coffee prepared .
with the unreasonable petulance of mankind i rang the bell and gave a curt intimation that i was ready .
then i picked up a magazine from the table and attempted to while away the time with it , while my companion munched silently at his toast .
one of the articles had a pencil mark at the heading , and i naturally began to run my eye through it .
its somewhat ambitious title was " the book of life , " and it attempted to show how much an observant man might learn by an accurate and systematic examination of all that came in his way .
it struck me as being a remarkable mixture of shrewdness and of absurdity . the reasoning was close and intense , but the deductions appeared to me to be far-fetched and exaggerated .
the writer claimed by a momentary expression , a twitch of a muscle or a glance of an eye , to fathom a man 's inmost thoughts .
deceit , according to him , was an impossibility in the case of one trained to observation and analysis . his conclusions were as infallible as so many propositions of euclid .
so startling would his results appear to the uninitiated that until they learned the processes by which he had arrived at them they might well consider him as a necromancer .
" from a drop of water , " said the writer , " a logician could infer the possibility of an atlantic or a niagara without having seen or heard of one or the other .
so all life is a great chain , the nature of which is known whenever we are shown a single link of it .
like all other arts , the science of deduction and analysis is one which can only be acquired by long and patient study nor is life long enough to allow any mortal to attain the highest possible perfection in it .
before turning to those moral and mental aspects of the matter which present the greatest difficulties , let the enquirer begin by mastering more elementary problems .
let him , on meeting a fellow-mortal , learn at a glance to distinguish the history of the man , and the trade or profession to which he belongs .
puerile as such an exercise may seem , it sharpens the faculties of observation , and teaches one where to look and what to look for .
by a man 's finger nails , by his coat-sleeve , by his boot , by his trouser knees , by the callosities of his forefinger and thumb , by his expression , by his shirt cuffs - by each of these things a man 's calling is plainly revealed .
that all united should fail to enlighten the competent enquirer in any case is almost inconceivable . "
" what ineffable twaddle ! " i cried , slapping the magazine down on the table , " i never read such rubbish in my life . "
" what is it ? " asked sherlock holmes .
" why , this article , " i said , pointing at it with my egg spoon as i sat down to my breakfast .
" i see that you have read it since you have marked it .
i don 't deny that it is smartly written . it irritates me though .
it is evidently the theory of some arm-chair lounger who evolves all these neat little paradoxes in the seclusion of his own study .
it is not practical .
i should like to see him clapped down in a third class carriage on the underground , and asked to give the trades of all his fellow-travellers . i would lay a thousand to one against him . "
" you would lose your money , " sherlock holmes remarked calmly .
" as for the article i wrote it myself . "
" you ! "
" yes , i have a turn both for observation and for deduction .
the theories which i have expressed there , and which appear to you to be so chimerical are really extremely practical - so practical that i depend upon them for my bread and cheese . "
" and how ? " i asked involuntarily .
" well , i have a trade of my own . i suppose i am the only one in the world .
i 'm a consulting detective , if you can understand what that is . here in london we have lots of government detectives and lots of private ones .
when these fellows are at fault they come to me , and i manage to put them on the right scent .
they lay all the evidence before me , and i am generally able , by the help of my knowledge of the history of crime , to set them straight .
there is a strong family resemblance about misdeeds , and if you have all the details of a thousand at your finger ends , it is odd if you can 't unravel the thousand and first .
lestrade is a well-known detective .
he got himself into a fog recently over a forgery case , and that was what brought him here . "
" and these other people ? "
" they are mostly sent on by private inquiry agencies .
they are all people who are in trouble about something , and want a little enlightening .
i listen to their story , they listen to my comments , and then i pocket my fee . "
" but do you mean to say , " i said , " that without leaving your room you can unravel some knot which other men can make nothing of , although they have seen every detail for themselves ? "
" quite so .
i have a kind of intuition that way .
now and again a case turns up which is a little more complex .
then i have to bustle about and see things with my own eyes .
you see i have a lot of special knowledge which i apply to the problem , and which facilitates matters wonderfully .
those rules of deduction laid down in that article which aroused your scorn , are invaluable to me in practical work .
observation with me is second nature .
you appeared to be surprised when i told you , on our first meeting , that you had come from afghanistan . "
" you were told , no doubt . "
" nothing of the sort .
i knew you came from afghanistan .
from long habit the train of thoughts ran so swiftly through my mind , that i arrived at the conclusion without being conscious of intermediate steps .
there were such steps , however .
the train of reasoning ran , ' here is a gentleman of a medical type , but with the air of a military man .
clearly an army doctor , then . he has just come from the tropics , for his face is dark , and that is not the natural tint of his skin , for his wrists are fair .
he has undergone hardship and sickness , as his haggard face says clearly .
his left arm has been injured . he holds it in a stiff and unnatural manner .
where in the tropics could an english army doctor have seen much hardship and got his arm wounded ? clearly in afghanistan . '
the whole train of thought did not occupy a second . i then remarked that you came from afghanistan , and you were astonished . "
" it is simple enough as you explain it , " i said , smiling .
" you remind me of edgar allen poe 's dupin .
i had no idea that such individuals did exist outside of stories . "
sherlock holmes rose and lit his pipe . " no doubt you think that you are complimenting me in comparing me to dupin , " he observed .
" now , in my opinion , dupin was a very inferior fellow .
that trick of his of breaking in on his friends ' thoughts with an apropos remark after a quarter of an hour 's silence is really very showy and superficial .
he had some analytical genius , no doubt ; but he was by no means such a phenomenon as poe appeared to imagine . "
i asked . " does lecoq come up to your idea of a detective ? "
sherlock holmes sniffed sardonically . " lecoq was a miserable bungler , " he said , in an angry voice ; " he had only one thing to recommend him , and that was his energy .
that book made me positively ill .
the question was how to identify an unknown prisoner .
i could have done it in twenty-four hours .
lecoq took six months or so . it might be made a text-book for detectives to teach them what to avoid . "
i felt rather indignant at having two characters whom i had admired treated in this cavalier style .
i walked over to the window , and stood looking out into the busy street .
" this fellow may be very clever , " i said to myself , " but he is certainly very conceited . "
" there are no crimes and no criminals in these days , " he said , querulously .
" what is the use of having brains in our profession .
i know well that i have it in me to make my name famous . no man lives or has ever lived who has brought the same amount of study and of natural talent to the detection of crime which i have done .
and what is the result ?
there is no crime to detect , or , at most , some bungling villainy with a motive so transparent that even a scotland yard official can see through it . "
i was still annoyed at his bumptious style of conversation . i thought it best to change the topic .
" i wonder what that fellow is looking for ? " i asked , pointing to a stalwart , plainly-dressed individual who was walking slowly down the other side of the street , looking anxiously at the numbers .
he had a large blue envelope in his hand , and was evidently the bearer of a message .
" you mean the retired sergeant of marines , " said sherlock holmes .
" brag and bounce ! " thought i to myself . " he knows that i cannot verify his guess . "
the thought had hardly passed through my mind when the man whom we were watching caught sight of the number on our door , and ran rapidly across the roadway .
we heard a loud knock , a deep voice below , and heavy steps ascending the stair .
" for mr. sherlock holmes , " he said , stepping into the room and handing my friend the letter .
here was an opportunity of taking the conceit out of him . he little thought of this when he made that random shot .
" may i ask , my lad , " i said , in the blandest voice , " what your trade may be ? "
" commissionaire , sir , " he said , gruffly . " uniform away for repairs . "
" and you were ? " i asked , with a slightly malicious glance at my companion .
" a sergeant , sir , royal marine light infantry , sir .
no answer ?
right , sir . "
he clicked his heels together , raised his hand in a salute , and was gone .
chapter iii . the lauriston garden mystery 6
i confess that i was considerably startled by this fresh proof of the practical nature of my companion 's theories . my respect for his powers of analysis increased wondrously .
there still remained some lurking suspicion in my mind , however , that the whole thing was a pre-arranged episode , intended to dazzle me , though what earthly object he could have in taking me in was past my comprehension .
when i looked at him he had finished reading the note , and his eyes had assumed the vacant , lack-lustre expression which showed mental abstraction .
" how in the world did you deduce that ? " i asked .
" deduce what ? " said he , petulantly .
" why , that he was a retired sergeant of marines . "
" i have no time for trifles , " he answered , brusquely ; then with a smile , " excuse my rudeness . you broke the thread of my thoughts ; but perhaps it is as well .
so you actually were not able to see that that man was a sergeant of marines ? "
" no , indeed . "
" it was easier to know it than to explain why i knew it .
if you were asked to prove that two and two made four , you might find some difficulty , and yet you are quite sure of the fact .
even across the street i could see a great blue anchor tattooed on the back of the fellow 's hand .
that smacked of the sea .
he had a military carriage , however , and regulation side whiskers .
there we have the marine . he was a man with some amount of self-importance and a certain air of command .
you must have observed the way in which he held his head and swung his cane .
a steady , respectable , middle-aged man , too , on the face of him - all facts which led me to believe that he had been a sergeant . "
" wonderful ! " i ejaculated .
" commonplace , " said holmes , though i thought from his expression that he was pleased at my evident surprise and admiration . " i said just now that there were no criminals .
" why , " i cried , as i cast my eye over it , " this is terrible ! "
" it does seem to be a little out of the common , " he remarked , calmly .
" would you mind reading it to me aloud ? "
this is the letter which i read to him - -
" my dear mr. sherlock holmes , -
" there has been a bad business during the night at 3 , lauriston gardens , off the brixton road .
our man on the beat saw a light there about two in the morning , and as the house was an empty one , suspected that something was amiss .
he found the door open , and in the front room , which is bare of furniture , discovered the body of a gentleman , well dressed , and having cards in his pocket bearing the name of ' enoch j. drebber , cleveland , ohio , u.s.a . '
there had been no robbery , nor is there any evidence as to how the man met his death .
there are marks of blood in the room , but there is no wound upon his person .
we are at a loss as to how he came into the empty house ; indeed , the whole affair is a puzzler .
if you can come round to the house any time before twelve , you will find me there .
i have left everything in statu quo until i hear from you .
if you are unable to come i shall give you fuller details , and would esteem it a great kindness if you would favour me with your opinion .
yours faithfully ,
" tobias gregson . "
" gregson is the smartest of the scotland yarders , " my friend remarked ; " he and lestrade are the pick of a bad lot .
they are both quick and energetic , but conventional - shockingly so .
they have their knives into one another , too . they are as jealous as a pair of professional beauties .
there will be some fun over this case if they are both put upon the scent . "
i was amazed at the calm way in which he rippled on .
" surely there is not a moment to be lost , " i cried , " shall i go and order you a cab ? "
" i 'm not sure about whether i shall go .
i am the most incurably lazy devil that ever stood in shoe leather - that is , when the fit is on me , for i can be spry enough at times . "
" why , it is just such a chance as you have been longing for . "
" my dear fellow , what does it matter to me .
supposing i unravel the whole matter , you may be sure that gregson , lestrade , and co. will pocket all the credit .
that comes of being an unofficial personage . "
" but he begs you to help him . "
he knows that i am his superior , and acknowledges it to me ; but he would cut his tongue out before he would own it to any third person . however , we may as well go and have a look .
i shall work it out on my own hook . i may have a laugh at them if i have nothing else .
come on ! "
he hustled on his overcoat , and bustled about in a way that showed that an energetic fit had superseded the apathetic one .
" get your hat , " he said .
" you wish me to come ? "
" yes , if you have nothing better to do . "
a minute later we were both in a hansom , driving furiously for the brixton road .
it was a foggy , cloudy morning , and a dun-coloured veil hung over the house-tops , looking like the reflection of the mud-coloured streets beneath .
my companion was in the best of spirits , and prattled away about cremona fiddles , and the difference between a stradivarius and an amati .
as for myself , i was silent , for the dull weather and the melancholy business upon which we were engaged , depressed my spirits .
" you don 't seem to give much thought to the matter in hand , " i said at last , interrupting holmes ' musical disquisition .
" no data yet , " he answered . " it is a capital mistake to theorize before you have all the evidence .
" you will have your data soon , " i remarked , pointing with my finger ; " this is the brixton road , and that is the house , if i am not very much mistaken . "
" so it is .
stop , driver , stop ! "
we were still a hundred yards or so from it , but he insisted upon our alighting , and we finished our journey upon foot .
number 3 , lauriston gardens wore an ill-omened and minatory look . it was one of four which stood back some little way from the street , two being occupied and two empty .
the latter looked out with three tiers of vacant melancholy windows , which were blank and dreary , save that here and there a " to let " card had developed like a cataract upon the bleared panes .
a small garden sprinkled over with a scattered eruption of sickly plants separated each of these houses from the street , and was traversed by a narrow pathway , yellowish in colour , and consisting apparently of a mixture of clay and of gravel .
the whole place was very sloppy from the rain which had fallen through the night . the garden was bounded by a three-foot brick wall with a fringe of wood rails upon the top , and against this wall was leaning a stalwart police constable , surrounded by a small knot of loafers , who craned their necks and strained their eyes in the vain hope of catching some glimpse of the proceedings within .
i had imagined that sherlock holmes would at once have hurried into the house and plunged into a study of the mystery . nothing appeared to be further from his intention .
with an air of nonchalance which , under the circumstances , seemed to me to border upon affectation , he lounged up and down the pavement , and gazed vacantly at the ground , the sky , the opposite houses and the line of railings .
having finished his scrutiny , he proceeded slowly down the path , or rather down the fringe of grass which flanked the path , keeping his eyes riveted upon the ground .
twice he stopped , and once i saw him smile , and heard him utter an exclamation of satisfaction .
there were many marks of footsteps upon the wet clayey soil , but since the police had been coming and going over it , i was unable to see how my companion could hope to learn anything from it .
still i had had such extraordinary evidence of the quickness of his perceptive faculties , that i had no doubt that he could see a great deal which was hidden from me .
at the door of the house we were met by a tall , white-faced , flaxen-haired man , with a notebook in his hand , who rushed forward and wrung my companion 's hand with effusion .
" it is indeed kind of you to come , " he said , " i have had everything left untouched . "
" except that ! " my friend answered , pointing at the pathway . " if a herd of buffaloes had passed along there could not be a greater mess .
no doubt , however , you had drawn your own conclusions , gregson , before you permitted this . "
" i have had so much to do inside the house , " the detective said evasively . " my colleague , mr .
holmes glanced at me and raised his eyebrows sardonically .
" with two such men as yourself and lestrade upon the ground , there will not be much for a third party to find out , " he said .
gregson rubbed his hands in a self-satisfied way .
" i think we have done all that can be done , " he answered ; " it 's a queer case though , and i knew your taste for such things . "
" you did not come here in a cab ? " asked sherlock holmes .
" no , sir . "
" nor lestrade ? "
" no , sir . "
" then let us go and look at the room . "
with which inconsequent remark he strode on into the house , followed by gregson , whose features expressed his astonishment .
a short passage , bare planked and dusty , led to the kitchen and offices . two doors opened out of it to the left and to the right .
one of these had obviously been closed for many weeks . the other belonged to the dining-room , which was the apartment in which the mysterious affair had occurred .
holmes walked in , and i followed him with that subdued feeling at my heart which the presence of death inspires .
it was a large square room , looking all the larger from the absence of all furniture .
a vulgar flaring paper adorned the walls , but it was blotched in places with mildew , and here and there great strips had become detached and hung down , exposing the yellow plaster beneath .
opposite the door was a showy fireplace , surmounted by a mantelpiece of imitation white marble . on one corner of this was stuck the stump of a red wax candle .
the solitary window was so dirty that the light was hazy and uncertain , giving a dull grey tinge to everything , which was intensified by the thick layer of dust which coated the whole apartment .
all these details i observed afterwards . at present my attention was centred upon the single grim motionless figure which lay stretched upon the boards , with vacant sightless eyes staring up at the discoloured ceiling .
it was that of a man about forty-three or forty-four years of age , middle-sized , broad shouldered , with crisp curling black hair , and a short stubbly beard .
he was dressed in a heavy broadcloth frock coat and waistcoat , with light-coloured trousers , and immaculate collar and cuffs .
a top hat , well brushed and trim , was placed upon the floor beside him .
his hands were clenched and his arms thrown abroad , while his lower limbs were interlocked as though his death struggle had been a grievous one .
on his rigid face there stood an expression of horror , and as it seemed to me , of hatred , such as i have never seen upon human features .
this malignant and terrible contortion , combined with the low forehead , blunt nose , and prognathous jaw gave the dead man a singularly simious and ape-like appearance , which was increased by his writhing , unnatural posture .
i have seen death in many forms , but never has it appeared to me in a more fearsome aspect than in that dark grimy apartment , which looked out upon one of the main arteries of suburban london .
lestrade , lean and ferret-like as ever , was standing by the doorway , and greeted my companion and myself .
" this case will make a stir , sir , " he remarked .
" it beats anything i have seen , and i am no chicken . "
" there is no clue ? " said gregson .
" none at all , " chimed in lestrade .
sherlock holmes approached the body , and , kneeling down , examined it intently . " you are sure that there is no wound ? " he asked , pointing to numerous gouts and splashes of blood which lay all round .
" positive ! " cried both detectives .
" then , of course , this blood belongs to a second individual - presumably the murderer , if murder has been committed .
it reminds me of the circumstances attendant on the death of van jansen , in utrecht , in the year ' 34 .
do you remember the case , gregson ? "
" no , sir . "
" read it up - you really should . there is nothing new under the sun .
as he spoke , his nimble fingers were flying here , there , and everywhere , feeling , pressing , unbuttoning , examining , while his eyes wore the same far-away expression which i have already remarked upon .
so swiftly was the examination made , that one would hardly have guessed the minuteness with which it was conducted .
finally , he sniffed the dead man 's lips , and then glanced at the soles of his patent leather boots .
" he has not been moved at all ? " he asked .
" no more than was necessary for the purposes of our examination . "
" you can take him to the mortuary now , " he said . " there is nothing more to be learned . "
gregson had a stretcher and four men at hand . at his call they entered the room , and the stranger was lifted and carried out .
as they raised him , a ring tinkled down and rolled across the floor . lestrade grabbed it up and stared at it with mystified eyes .
" it 's a woman 's wedding-ring . " he held it out , as he spoke , upon the palm of his hand .
we all gathered round him and gazed at it . there could be no doubt that that circlet of plain gold had once adorned the finger of a bride .
" this complicates matters , " said gregson . " heaven knows , they were complicated enough before . "
" you 're sure it doesn 't simplify them ? " observed holmes .
" there 's nothing to be learned by staring at it . what did you find in his pockets ? "
" we have it all here , " said gregson , pointing to a litter of objects upon one of the bottom steps of the stairs . " a gold watch , no .
gold ring , with masonic device . gold pin - bull-dog 's head , with rubies as eyes .
russian leather card-case , with cards of enoch j. drebber of cleveland , corresponding with the e. j. d. upon the linen . no purse , but loose money to the extent of seven pounds thirteen .
" at what address ? "
" american exchange , strand - to be left till called for .
they are both from the guion steamship company , and refer to the sailing of their boats from liverpool .
it is clear that this unfortunate man was about to return to new york . "
" have you made any inquiries as to this man , stangerson ? "
" i did it at once , sir , " said gregson .
" i have had advertisements sent to all the newspapers , and one of my men has gone to the american exchange , but he has not returned yet . "
" have you sent to cleveland ? "
" we telegraphed this morning . "
" how did you word your inquiries ? "
" we simply detailed the circumstances , and said that we should be glad of any information which could help us . "
" you did not ask for particulars on any point which appeared to you to be crucial ? "
" i asked about stangerson . "
" nothing else ?
is there no circumstance on which this whole case appears to hinge ?
will you not telegraph again ? "
" i have said all i have to say , " said gregson , in an offended voice .
sherlock holmes chuckled to himself , and appeared to be about to make some remark , when lestrade , who had been in the front room while we were holding this conversation in the hall , reappeared upon the scene , rubbing his hands in a pompous and self-satisfied manner .
" mr. gregson , " he said , " i have just made a discovery of the highest importance , and one which would have been overlooked had i not made a careful examination of the walls . "
the little man 's eyes sparkled as he spoke , and he was evidently in a state of suppressed exultation at having scored a point against his colleague .
" come here , " he said , bustling back into the room , the atmosphere of which felt clearer since the removal of its ghastly inmate .
" now , stand there ! "
he struck a match on his boot and held it up against the wall .
" look at that ! " he said , triumphantly .
i have remarked that the paper had fallen away in parts .
in this particular corner of the room a large piece had peeled off , leaving a yellow square of coarse plastering .
across this bare space there was scrawled in blood-red letters a single word -
rache .
" what do you think of that ? " cried the detective , with the air of a showman exhibiting his show .
" this was overlooked because it was in the darkest corner of the room , and no one thought of looking there .
the murderer has written it with his or her own blood .
see this smear where it has trickled down the wall !
that disposes of the idea of suicide anyhow .
why was that corner chosen to write it on ?
i will tell you .
see that candle on the mantelpiece . it was lit at the time , and if it was lit this corner would be the brightest instead of the darkest portion of the wall . "
" and what does it mean now that you have found it ? " asked gregson in a depreciatory voice .
" mean ?
why , it means that the writer was going to put the female name rachel , but was disturbed before he or she had time to finish .
you mark my words , when this case comes to be cleared up you will find that a woman named rachel has something to do with it . it 's all very well for you to laugh , mr .
sherlock holmes . you may be very smart and clever , but the old hound is the best , when all is said and done . "
" i really beg your pardon ! " said my companion , who had ruffled the little man 's temper by bursting into an explosion of laughter .
" you certainly have the credit of being the first of us to find this out , and , as you say , it bears every mark of having been written by the other participant in last night 's mystery .
i have not had time to examine this room yet , but with your permission i shall do so now . "
as he spoke , he whipped a tape measure and a large round magnifying glass from his pocket .
with these two implements he trotted noiselessly about the room , sometimes stopping , occasionally kneeling , and once lying flat upon his face .
so engrossed was he with his occupation that he appeared to have forgotten our presence , for he chattered away to himself under his breath the whole time , keeping up a running fire of exclamations , groans , whistles , and little cries suggestive of encouragement and of hope .
as i watched him i was irresistibly reminded of a pure-blooded well-trained foxhound as it dashes backwards and forwards through the covert , whining in its eagerness , until it comes across the lost scent .
for twenty minutes or more he continued his researches , measuring with the most exact care the distance between marks which were entirely invisible to me , and occasionally applying his tape to the walls in an equally incomprehensible manner .
in one place he gathered up very carefully a little pile of grey dust from the floor , and packed it away in an envelope .
finally , he examined with his glass the word upon the wall , going over every letter of it with the most minute exactness .
this done , he appeared to be satisfied , for he replaced his tape and his glass in his pocket .
" they say that genius is an infinite capacity for taking pains , " he remarked with a smile .
" it 's a very bad definition , but it does apply to detective work . "
gregson and lestrade had watched the manoeuvres of their amateur companion with considerable curiosity and some contempt .
they evidently failed to appreciate the fact , which i had begun to realize , that sherlock holmes ' smallest actions were all directed towards some definite and practical end .
" what do you think of it , sir ? " they both asked .
" it would be robbing you of the credit of the case if i was to presume to help you , " remarked my friend .
" you are doing so well now that it would be a pity for anyone to interfere . "
there was a world of sarcasm in his voice as he spoke .
" if you will let me know how your investigations go , " he continued , " i shall be happy to give you any help i can .
in the meantime i should like to speak to the constable who found the body .
can you give me his name and address ? "
lestrade glanced at his note-book .
" john rance , " he said .
" he is off duty now .
you will find him at 46 , audley court , kennington park gate . "
holmes took a note of the address .
" come along , doctor , " he said ; " we shall go and look him up .
i 'll tell you one thing which may help you in the case , " he continued , turning to the two detectives .
" there has been murder done , and the murderer was a man .
he was more than six feet high , was in the prime of life , had small feet for his height , wore coarse , square-toed boots and smoked a trichinopoly cigar .
he came here with his victim in a four-wheeled cab , which was drawn by a horse with three old shoes and one new one on his off fore leg .
in all probability the murderer had a florid face , and the finger-nails of his right hand were remarkably long .
these are only a few indications , but they may assist you . "
lestrade and gregson glanced at each other with an incredulous smile .
" if this man was murdered , how was it done ? " asked the former .
" poison , " said sherlock holmes curtly , and strode off .
" one other thing , lestrade , " he added , turning round at the door : " ' rache , ' is the german for ' revenge ; ' so don 't lose your time looking for miss rachel . "
with which parthian shot he walked away , leaving the two rivals open-mouthed behind him .
chapter iv . what john rance had to tell .
it was one o 'clock when we left no. 3 , lauriston gardens .
sherlock holmes led me to the nearest telegraph office , whence he dispatched a long telegram . he then hailed a cab , and ordered the driver to take us to the address given us by lestrade .
" there is nothing like first hand evidence , " he remarked ; " as a matter of fact , my mind is entirely made up upon the case , but still we may as well learn all that is to be learned . "
" you amaze me , holmes , " said i. " surely you are not as sure as you pretend to be of all those particulars which you gave . "
" there 's no room for a mistake , " he answered .
" the very first thing which i observed on arriving there was that a cab had made two ruts with its wheels close to the curb . now , up to last night , we have had no rain for a week , so that those wheels which left such a deep impression must have been there during the night .
there were the marks of the horse 's hoofs , too , the outline of one of which was far more clearly cut than that of the other three , showing that that was a new shoe .
since the cab was there after the rain began , and was not there at any time during the morning - i have gregson 's word for that - it follows that it must have been there during the night , and , therefore , that it brought those two individuals to the house . "
" that seems simple enough , " said i ; " but how about the other man 's height ? "
" why , the height of a man , in nine cases out of ten , can be told from the length of his stride .
it is a simple calculation enough , though there is no use my boring you with figures .
i had this fellow 's stride both on the clay outside and on the dust within .
then i had a way of checking my calculation .
when a man writes on a wall , his instinct leads him to write about the level of his own eyes .
now that writing was just over six feet from the ground .
it was child 's play . "
" and his age ? " i asked .
" well , if a man can stride four and a-half feet without the smallest effort , he can 't be quite in the sere and yellow . that was the breadth of a puddle on the garden walk which he had evidently walked across .
patent-leather boots had gone round , and square-toes had hopped over .
there is no mystery about it at all .
i am simply applying to ordinary life a few of those precepts of observation and deduction which i advocated in that article .
is there anything else that puzzles you ? "
" the finger nails and the trichinopoly , " i suggested .
" the writing on the wall was done with a man 's forefinger dipped in blood .
my glass allowed me to observe that the plaster was slightly scratched in doing it , which would not have been the case if the man 's nail had been trimmed .
i gathered up some scattered ash from the floor .
it was dark in colour and flakey - such an ash as is only made by a trichinopoly .
i have made a special study of cigar ashes - in fact , i have written a monograph upon the subject .
i flatter myself that i can distinguish at a glance the ash of any known brand , either of cigar or of tobacco .
it is just in such details that the skilled detective differs from the gregson and lestrade type . "
" and the florid face ? " i asked .
" ah , that was a more daring shot , though i have no doubt that i was right .
you must not ask me that at the present state of the affair . "
i passed my hand over my brow .
" my head is in a whirl , " i remarked ; " the more one thinks of it the more mysterious it grows .
how came these two men - if there were two men - into an empty house ?
what has become of the cabman who drove them ?
how could one man compel another to take poison ?
where did the blood come from ?
what was the object of the murderer , since robbery had no part in it ?
how came the woman 's ring there ?
above all , why should the second man write up the german word rache before decamping ?
i confess that i cannot see any possible way of reconciling all these facts . "
my companion smiled approvingly .
" you sum up the difficulties of the situation succinctly and well , " he said . " there is much that is still obscure , though i have quite made up my mind on the main facts .
as to poor lestrade 's discovery it was simply a blind intended to put the police upon a wrong track , by suggesting socialism and secret societies .
it was not done by a german .
the a , if you noticed , was printed somewhat after the german fashion . now , a real german invariably prints in the latin character , so that we may safely say that this was not written by one , but by a clumsy imitator who overdid his part .
it was simply a ruse to divert inquiry into a wrong channel .
i 'm not going to tell you much more of the case , doctor . you know a conjuror gets no credit when once he has explained his trick , and if i show you too much of my method of working , you will come to the conclusion that i am a very ordinary individual after all . "
" i shall never do that , " i answered ; " you have brought detection as near an exact science as it ever will be brought in this world . "
my companion flushed up with pleasure at my words , and the earnest way in which i uttered them .
i had already observed that he was as sensitive to flattery on the score of his art as any girl could be of her beauty .
" i 'll tell you one other thing , " he said .
" patent leathers and square-toes came in the same cab , and they walked down the pathway together as friendly as possible - arm-in-arm , in all probability .
when they got inside they walked up and down the room - or rather , patent-leathers stood still while square-toes walked up and down .
i could read all that in the dust ; and i could read that as he walked he grew more and more excited .
that is shown by the increased length of his strides .
he was talking all the while , and working himself up , no doubt , into a fury .
then the tragedy occurred .
i 've told you all i know myself now , for the rest is mere surmise and conjecture .
we have a good working basis , however , on which to start . we must hurry up , for i want to go to halle 's concert to hear norman neruda this afternoon . "
this conversation had occurred while our cab had been threading its way through a long succession of dingy streets and dreary by-ways .
in the dingiest and dreariest of them our driver suddenly came to a stand .
" that 's audley court in there , " he said , pointing to a narrow slit in the line of dead-coloured brick .
" you 'll find me here when you come back . "
audley court was not an attractive locality .
the narrow passage led us into a quadrangle paved with flags and lined by sordid dwellings .
we picked our way among groups of dirty children , and through lines of discoloured linen , until we came to number 46 , the door of which was decorated with a small slip of brass on which the name rance was engraved .
on enquiry we found that the constable was in bed , and we were shown into a little front parlour to await his coming .
he appeared presently , looking a little irritable at being disturbed in his slumbers .
" i made my report at the office , " he said .
holmes took a half-sovereign from his pocket and played with it pensively .
" we thought that we should like to hear it all from your own lips , " he said .
" i shall be most happy to tell you anything i can , " the constable answered with his eyes upon the little golden disk .
" just let us hear it all in your own way as it occurred . "
rance sat down on the horsehair sofa , and knitted his brows as though determined not to omit anything in his narrative .
" i 'll tell it ye from the beginning , " he said . " my time is from ten at night to six in the morning .
at eleven there was a fight at the ' white hart ' ; but bar that all was quiet enough on the beat .
at one o 'clock it began to rain , and i met harry murcher - him who has the holland grove beat - and we stood together at the corner of henrietta street a-talkin ' .
presently - maybe about two or a little after - i thought i would take a look round and see that all was right down the brixton road .
it was precious dirty and lonely . not a soul did i meet all the way down , though a cab or two went past me .
i was a strollin ' down , thinkin ' between ourselves how uncommon handy a four of gin hot would be , when suddenly the glint of a light caught my eye in the window of that same house .
now , i knew that them two houses in lauriston gardens was empty on account of him that owns them who won 't have the drains seen to , though the very last tenant what lived in one of them died o ' typhoid fever .
i was knocked all in a heap therefore at seeing a light in the window , and i suspected as something was wrong .
when i got to the door - - "
" you stopped , and then walked back to the garden gate , " my companion interrupted . " what did you do that for ? "
rance gave a violent jump , and stared at sherlock holmes with the utmost amazement upon his features .
" why , that 's true , sir , " he said ; " though how you come to know it , heaven only knows .
ye see , when i got up to the door it was so still and so lonesome , that i thought i 'd be none the worse for some one with me .
i ain 't afeared of anything on this side o ' the grave ; but i thought that maybe it was him that died o ' the typhoid inspecting the drains what killed him .
the thought gave me a kind o ' turn , and i walked back to the gate to see if i could see murcher 's lantern , but there wasn 't no sign of him nor of anyone else . "
" there was no one in the street ? "
" not a livin ' soul , sir , nor as much as a dog .
then i pulled myself together and went back and pushed the door open .
all was quiet inside , so i went into the room where the light was a-burnin ' . there was a candle flickerin ' on the mantelpiece - a red wax one - and by its light i saw - - "
" yes , i know all that you saw .
you walked round the room several times , and you knelt down by the body , and then you walked through and tried the kitchen door , and then - - "
john rance sprang to his feet with a frightened face and suspicion in his eyes . " where was you hid to see all that ? " he cried .
" it seems to me that you knows a deal more than you should . "
holmes laughed and threw his card across the table to the constable .
" don 't get arresting me for the murder , " he said . " i am one of the hounds and not the wolf ; mr .
gregson or mr. lestrade will answer for that .
go on , though . what did you do next ? "
rance resumed his seat , without however losing his mystified expression .
" i went back to the gate and sounded my whistle . that brought murcher and two more to the spot . "
" was the street empty then ? "
" well , it was , as far as anybody that could be of any good goes . "
" what do you mean ? "
the constable 's features broadened into a grin .
" i 've seen many a drunk chap in my time , " he said , " but never anyone so cryin ' drunk as that cove .
he was at the gate when i came out , a-leanin ' up agin the railings , and a-singin ' at the pitch o ' his lungs about columbine 's new-fangled banner , or some such stuff . he couldn 't stand , far less help . "
" what sort of a man was he ? " asked sherlock holmes .
john rance appeared to be somewhat irritated at this digression .
" he was an uncommon drunk sort o ' man , " he said .
" he 'd ha ' found hisself in the station if we hadn 't been so took up . "
" his face - his dress - didn 't you notice them ? " holmes broke in impatiently .
" i should think i did notice them , seeing that i had to prop him up - me and murcher between us .
he was a long chap , with a red face , the lower part muffled round - - "
" that will do , " cried holmes . " what became of him ? "
" we 'd enough to do without lookin ' after him , " the policeman said , in an aggrieved voice . " i 'll wager he found his way home all right . "
" how was he dressed ? "
" a brown overcoat . "
" had he a whip in his hand ? "
" a whip - no . "
" he must have left it behind , " muttered my companion .
" you didn 't happen to see or hear a cab after that ? "
" no . "
" there 's a half-sovereign for you , " my companion said , standing up and taking his hat .
" i am afraid , rance , that you will never rise in the force . that head of yours should be for use as well as ornament .
you might have gained your sergeant 's stripes last night .
the man whom you held in your hands is the man who holds the clue of this mystery , and whom we are seeking .
there is no use of arguing about it now ; i tell you that it is so .
come along , doctor . "
we started off for the cab together , leaving our informant incredulous , but obviously uncomfortable .
" the blundering fool , " holmes said , bitterly , as we drove back to our lodgings .
" just to think of his having such an incomparable bit of good luck , and not taking advantage of it . "
" i am rather in the dark still .
it is true that the description of this man tallies with your idea of the second party in this mystery . but why should he come back to the house after leaving it ?
that is not the way of criminals . "
" the ring , man , the ring : that was what he came back for .
if we have no other way of catching him , we can always bait our line with the ring .
i shall have him , doctor - i 'll lay you two to one that i have him .
i must thank you for it all . i might not have gone but for you , and so have missed the finest study i ever came across : a study in scarlet , eh ?
why shouldn 't we use a little art jargon . there 's the scarlet thread of murder running through the colourless skein of life , and our duty is to unravel it , and isolate it , and expose every inch of it .
and now for lunch , and then for norman neruda . her attack and her bowing are splendid .
what 's that little thing of chopin 's she plays so magnificently : tra-la-la-lira-lira-lay . "
leaning back in the cab , this amateur bloodhound carolled away like a lark while i meditated upon the many-sidedness of the human mind .
chapter v. our advertisement brings a visitor .
our morning 's exertions had been too much for my weak health , and i was tired out in the afternoon .
after holmes ' departure for the concert , i lay down upon the sofa and endeavoured to get a couple of hours ' sleep .
it was a useless attempt .
my mind had been too much excited by all that had occurred , and the strangest fancies and surmises crowded into it .
every time that i closed my eyes i saw before me the distorted baboon-like countenance of the murdered man .
so sinister was the impression which that face had produced upon me that i found it difficult to feel anything but gratitude for him who had removed its owner from the world . if ever human features bespoke vice of the most malignant type , they were certainly those of enoch j. drebber , of cleveland .
still i recognized that justice must be done , and that the depravity of the victim was no condonment in the eyes of the law .
the more i thought of it the more extraordinary did my companion 's hypothesis , that the man had been poisoned , appear . i remembered how he had sniffed his lips , and had no doubt that he had detected something which had given rise to the idea .
then , again , if not poison , what had caused the man 's death , since there was neither wound nor marks of strangulation ?
but , on the other hand , whose blood was that which lay so thickly upon the floor ?
there were no signs of a struggle , nor had the victim any weapon with which he might have wounded an antagonist .
as long as all these questions were unsolved , i felt that sleep would be no easy matter , either for holmes or myself .
his quiet self-confident manner convinced me that he had already formed a theory which explained all the facts , though what it was i could not for an instant conjecture .
he was very late in returning - so late , that i knew that the concert could not have detained him all the time .
dinner was on the table before he appeared .
" it was magnificent , " he said , as he took his seat .
" do you remember what darwin says about music ?
he claims that the power of producing and appreciating it existed among the human race long before the power of speech was arrived at .
perhaps that is why we are so subtly influenced by it .
there are vague memories in our souls of those misty centuries when the world was in its childhood . "
" that 's rather a broad idea , " i remarked .
" one 's ideas must be as broad as nature if they are to interpret nature , " he answered . " what 's the matter ?
you 're not looking quite yourself . this brixton road affair has upset you . "
" to tell the truth , it has , " i said . " i ought to be more case-hardened after my afghan experiences .
i saw my own comrades hacked to pieces at maiwand without losing my nerve . "
" i can understand .
there is a mystery about this which stimulates the imagination ; where there is no imagination there is no horror .
have you seen the evening paper ? "
" no . "
" it gives a fairly good account of the affair . it does not mention the fact that when the man was raised up , a woman 's wedding ring fell upon the floor .
it is just as well it does not . "
" why ? "
" look at this advertisement , " he answered .
" i had one sent to every paper this morning immediately after the affair . "
he threw the paper across to me and i glanced at the place indicated .
it was the first announcement in the " found " column . " in brixton road , this morning , " it ran , " a plain gold wedding ring , found in the roadway between the ' white hart ' tavern and holland grove .
" excuse my using your name , " he said .
" if i used my own some of these dunderheads would recognize it , and want to meddle in the affair . "
" that is all right , " i answered . " but supposing anyone applies , i have no ring . "
" oh yes , you have , " said he , handing me one .
" this will do very well . it is almost a facsimile . "
" and who do you expect will answer this advertisement . "
" why , the man in the brown coat - our florid friend with the square toes .
if he does not come himself he will send an accomplice . "
" would he not consider it as too dangerous ? "
" not at all . if my view of the case is correct , and i have every reason to believe that it is , this man would rather risk anything than lose the ring .
according to my notion he dropped it while stooping over drebber 's body , and did not miss it at the time .
after leaving the house he discovered his loss and hurried back , but found the police already in possession , owing to his own folly in leaving the candle burning .
he had to pretend to be drunk in order to allay the suspicions which might have been aroused by his appearance at the gate .
now put yourself in that man 's place . on thinking the matter over , it must have occurred to him that it was possible that he had lost the ring in the road after leaving the house .
what would he do , then ?
he would eagerly look out for the evening papers in the hope of seeing it among the articles found .
his eye , of course , would light upon this . he would be overjoyed .
why should he fear a trap ?
there would be no reason in his eyes why the finding of the ring should be connected with the murder .
he would come . he will come .
you shall see him within an hour . "
" and then ? " i asked .
" oh , you can leave me to deal with him then .
have you any arms ? "
" i have my old service revolver and a few cartridges . "
" you had better clean it and load it . he will be a desperate man , and though i shall take him unawares , it is as well to be ready for anything . "
i went to my bedroom and followed his advice .
when i returned with the pistol the table had been cleared , and holmes was engaged in his favourite occupation of scraping upon his violin .
" the plot thickens , " he said , as i entered ; " i have just had an answer to my american telegram .
my view of the case is the correct one . "
" and that is ? " i asked eagerly .
" my fiddle would be the better for new strings , " he remarked .
" put your pistol in your pocket .
when the fellow comes speak to him in an ordinary way . leave the rest to me .
don 't frighten him by looking at him too hard . "
" it is eight o 'clock now , " i said , glancing at my watch .
" yes . he will probably be here in a few minutes .
open the door slightly .
that will do .
now put the key on the inside .
thank you !
this is a queer old book i picked up at a stall yesterday - ' de jure inter gentes ' - published in latin at liege in the lowlands , in 1642 .
charles ' head was still firm on his shoulders when this little brown-backed volume was struck off . "
" who is the printer ? "
" philippe de croy , whoever he may have been .
on the fly-leaf , in very faded ink , is written ' ex libris guliolmi whyte . ' i wonder who william whyte was .
some pragmatical seventeenth century lawyer , i suppose . his writing has a legal twist about it .
here comes our man , i think . "
as he spoke there was a sharp ring at the bell . sherlock holmes rose softly and moved his chair in the direction of the door .
we heard the servant pass along the hall , and the sharp click of the latch as she opened it .
" does dr. watson live here ? " asked a clear but rather harsh voice .
we could not hear the servant 's reply , but the door closed , and some one began to ascend the stairs .
the footfall was an uncertain and shuffling one .
a look of surprise passed over the face of my companion as he listened to it .
it came slowly along the passage , and there was a feeble tap at the door .
" come in , " i cried .
at my summons , instead of the man of violence whom we expected , a very old and wrinkled woman hobbled into the apartment .
she appeared to be dazzled by the sudden blaze of light , and after dropping a curtsey , she stood blinking at us with her bleared eyes and fumbling in her pocket with nervous , shaky fingers .
i glanced at my companion , and his face had assumed such a disconsolate expression that it was all i could do to keep my countenance .
the old crone drew out an evening paper , and pointed at our advertisement .
" it 's this as has brought me , good gentlemen , " she said , dropping another curtsey ; " a gold wedding ring in the brixton road .
it belongs to my girl sally , as was married only this time twelvemonth , which her husband is steward aboard a union boat , and what he 'd say if he come ' ome and found her without her ring is more than i can think , he being short enough at the best o ' times , but more especially when he has the drink .
if it please you , she went to the circus last night along with - - "
" is that her ring ? " i asked .
" the lord be thanked ! " cried the old woman ; " sally will be a glad woman this night .
that 's the ring . "
" and what may your address be ? " i inquired , taking up a pencil .
" 13 , duncan street , houndsditch . a weary way from here . "
" the brixton road does not lie between any circus and houndsditch , " said sherlock holmes sharply .
the old woman faced round and looked keenly at him from her little red-rimmed eyes .
" the gentleman asked me for my address , " she said .
" sally lives in lodgings at 3 , mayfield place , peckham . "
" and your name is - - ? "
" my name is sawyer - her 's is dennis , which tom dennis married her - and a smart , clean lad , too , as long as he 's at sea , and no steward in the company more thought of ; but when on shore , what with the women and what with liquor shops - - "
" here is your ring , mrs. sawyer , " i interrupted , in obedience to a sign from my companion ; " it clearly belongs to your daughter , and i am glad to be able to restore it to the rightful owner . "
with many mumbled blessings and protestations of gratitude the old crone packed it away in her pocket , and shuffled off down the stairs .
sherlock holmes sprang to his feet the moment that she was gone and rushed into his room .
he returned in a few seconds enveloped in an ulster and a cravat .
" i 'll follow her , " he said , hurriedly ; " she must be an accomplice , and will lead me to him .
wait up for me . "
the hall door had hardly slammed behind our visitor before holmes had descended the stair .
looking through the window i could see her walking feebly along the other side , while her pursuer dogged her some little distance behind .
" either his whole theory is incorrect , " i thought to myself , " or else he will be led now to the heart of the mystery . "
there was no need for him to ask me to wait up for him , for i felt that sleep was impossible until i heard the result of his adventure .
it was close upon nine when he set out .
i had no idea how long he might be , but i sat stolidly puffing at my pipe and skipping over the pages of henri murger 's " vie de boheme . "
ten o 'clock passed , and i heard the footsteps of the maid as they pattered off to bed . eleven , and the more stately tread of the landlady passed my door , bound for the same destination .
it was close upon twelve before i heard the sharp sound of his latch-key .
the instant he entered i saw by his face that he had not been successful . amusement and chagrin seemed to be struggling for the mastery , until the former suddenly carried the day , and he burst into a hearty laugh .
" i wouldn 't have the scotland yarders know it for the world , " he cried , dropping into his chair ; " i have chaffed them so much that they would never have let me hear the end of it .
i can afford to laugh , because i know that i will be even with them in the long run . "
" what is it then ? " i asked .
" oh , i don 't mind telling a story against myself .
that creature had gone a little way when she began to limp and show every sign of being foot-sore .
presently she came to a halt , and hailed a four-wheeler which was passing .
i managed to be close to her so as to hear the address , but i need not have been so anxious , for she sang it out loud enough to be heard at the other side of the street , ' drive to 13 , duncan street , houndsditch , ' she cried .
this begins to look genuine , i thought , and having seen her safely inside , i perched myself behind .
that 's an art which every detective should be an expert at .
well , away we rattled , and never drew rein until we reached the street in question .
i hopped off before we came to the door , and strolled down the street in an easy , lounging way .
i saw the cab pull up . the driver jumped down , and i saw him open the door and stand expectantly .
nothing came out though .
when i reached him he was groping about frantically in the empty cab , and giving vent to the finest assorted collection of oaths that ever i listened to .
there was no sign or trace of his passenger , and i fear it will be some time before he gets his fare .
on inquiring at number 13 we found that the house belonged to a respectable paperhanger , named keswick , and that no one of the name either of sawyer or dennis had ever been heard of there . "
" you don 't mean to say , " i cried , in amazement , " that that tottering , feeble old woman was able to get out of the cab while it was in motion , without either you or the driver seeing her ? "
" old woman be damned ! " said sherlock holmes , sharply .
" we were the old women to be so taken in .
it must have been a young man , and an active one , too , besides being an incomparable actor .
the get-up was inimitable .
he saw that he was followed , no doubt , and used this means of giving me the slip .
it shows that the man we are after is not as lonely as i imagined he was , but has friends who are ready to risk something for him .
now , doctor , you are looking done-up . take my advice and turn in . "
i was certainly feeling very weary , so i obeyed his injunction .
i left holmes seated in front of the smouldering fire , and long into the watches of the night i heard the low , melancholy wailings of his violin , and knew that he was still pondering over the strange problem which he had set himself to unravel .
chapter vi . tobias gregson shows what he can do .
the papers next day were full of the " brixton mystery , " as they termed it .
each had a long account of the affair , and some had leaders upon it in addition .
there was some information in them which was new to me .
i still retain in my scrap-book numerous clippings and extracts bearing upon the case . here is a condensation of a few of them : -
the daily telegraph remarked that in the history of crime there had seldom been a tragedy which presented stranger features .
the german name of the victim , the absence of all other motive , and the sinister inscription on the wall , all pointed to its perpetration by political refugees and revolutionists .
the socialists had many branches in america , and the deceased had , no doubt , infringed their unwritten laws , and been tracked down by them .
after alluding airily to the vehmgericht , aqua tofana , carbonari , the marchioness de brinvilliers , the darwinian theory , the principles of malthus , and the ratcliff highway murders , the article concluded by admonishing the government and advocating a closer watch over foreigners in england .
the standard commented upon the fact that lawless outrages of the sort usually occurred under a liberal administration . they arose from the unsettling of the minds of the masses , and the consequent weakening of all authority .
the deceased was an american gentleman who had been residing for some weeks in the metropolis . he had stayed at the boarding-house of madame charpentier , in torquay terrace , camberwell .
he was accompanied in his travels by his private secretary , mr. joseph stangerson .
the two bade adieu to their landlady upon tuesday , the 4th inst . , and departed to euston station with the avowed intention of catching the liverpool express .
they were afterwards seen together upon the platform . nothing more is known of them until mr .
drebber 's body was , as recorded , discovered in an empty house in the brixton road , many miles from euston . how he came there , or how he met his fate , are questions which are still involved in mystery .
nothing is known of the whereabouts of stangerson .
we are glad to learn that mr .
lestrade and mr .
gregson , of scotland yard , are both engaged upon the case , and it is confidently anticipated that these well-known officers will speedily throw light upon the matter .
the daily news observed that there was no doubt as to the crime being a political one .
the despotism and hatred of liberalism which animated the continental governments had had the effect of driving to our shores a number of men who might have made excellent citizens were they not soured by the recollection of all that they had undergone .
among these men there was a stringent code of honour , any infringement of which was punished by death .
every effort should be made to find the secretary , stangerson , and to ascertain some particulars of the habits of the deceased .
a great step had been gained by the discovery of the address of the house at which he had boarded - a result which was entirely due to the acuteness and energy of mr. gregson of scotland yard .
sherlock holmes and i read these notices over together at breakfast , and they appeared to afford him considerable amusement .
" i told you that , whatever happened , lestrade and gregson would be sure to score . "
" that depends on how it turns out . "
" oh , bless you , it doesn 't matter in the least .
if the man is caught , it will be on account of their exertions ; if he escapes , it will be in spite of their exertions .
it 's heads i win and tails you lose . whatever they do , they will have followers .
'un sot trouve toujours un plus sot qui l 'admire . ' "
" what on earth is this ? "
i cried , for at this moment there came the pattering of many steps in the hall and on the stairs , accompanied by audible expressions of disgust upon the part of our landlady .
" it 's the baker street division of the detective police force , " said my companion , gravely ; and as he spoke there rushed into the room half a dozen of the dirtiest and most ragged street arabs that ever i clapped eyes on .
" ' tention ! " cried holmes , in a sharp tone , and the six dirty little scoundrels stood in a line like so many disreputable statuettes . " in future you shall send up wiggins alone to report , and the rest of you must wait in the street .
have you found it , wiggins ? "
" no , sir , we hain 't , " said one of the youths .
" i hardly expected you would .
you must keep on until you do .
here are your wages . "
he handed each of them a shilling .
" now , off you go , and come back with a better report next time . "
he waved his hand , and they scampered away downstairs like so many rats , and we heard their shrill voices next moment in the street .
" there 's more work to be got out of one of those little beggars than out of a dozen of the force , " holmes remarked .
" the mere sight of an official-looking person seals men 's lips . these youngsters , however , go everywhere and hear everything .
they are as sharp as needles , too ; all they want is organisation . "
" is it on this brixton case that you are employing them ? " i asked .
" yes ; there is a point which i wish to ascertain . it is merely a matter of time .
hullo ! we are going to hear some news now with a vengeance !
here is gregson coming down the road with beatitude written upon every feature of his face . bound for us , i know .
there was a violent peal at the bell , and in a few seconds the fair-haired detective came up the stairs , three steps at a time , and burst into our sitting-room .
" my dear fellow , " he cried , wringing holmes ' unresponsive hand , " congratulate me !
i have made the whole thing as clear as day . "
a shade of anxiety seemed to me to cross my companion 's expressive face .
" do you mean that you are on the right track ? " he asked .
" the right track !
why , sir , we have the man under lock and key . "
" and his name is ? "
" arthur charpentier , sub-lieutenant in her majesty 's navy , " cried gregson , pompously , rubbing his fat hands and inflating his chest .
sherlock holmes gave a sigh of relief , and relaxed into a smile .
" take a seat , and try one of these cigars , " he said . " we are anxious to know how you managed it .
will you have some whiskey and water ? "
" i don 't mind if i do , " the detective answered .
" the tremendous exertions which i have gone through during the last day or two have worn me out .
not so much bodily exertion , you understand , as the strain upon the mind .
you will appreciate that , mr. sherlock holmes , for we are both brain-workers . "
" you do me too much honour , " said holmes , gravely .
" let us hear how you arrived at this most gratifying result . "
the detective seated himself in the arm-chair , and puffed complacently at his cigar .
then suddenly he slapped his thigh in a paroxysm of amusement .
" the fun of it is , " he cried , " that that fool lestrade , who thinks himself so smart , has gone off upon the wrong track altogether .
he is after the secretary stangerson , who had no more to do with the crime than the babe unborn .
i have no doubt that he has caught him by this time . "
the idea tickled gregson so much that he laughed until he choked .
" and how did you get your clue ? "
" ah , i 'll tell you all about it . of course , doctor watson , this is strictly between ourselves .
the first difficulty which we had to contend with was the finding of this american 's antecedents .
some people would have waited until their advertisements were answered , or until parties came forward and volunteered information .
that is not tobias gregson 's way of going to work .
you remember the hat beside the dead man ? "
" yes , " said holmes ; " by john underwood and sons , 129 , camberwell road . "
gregson looked quite crest-fallen .
" i had no idea that you noticed that , " he said .
" have you been there ? "
" no . "
" ha ! " cried gregson , in a relieved voice ; " you should never neglect a chance , however small it may seem . "
" to a great mind , nothing is little , " remarked holmes , sententiously .
" well , i went to underwood , and asked him if he had sold a hat of that size and description .
he looked over his books , and came on it at once .
he had sent the hat to a mr. drebber , residing at charpentier 's boarding establishment , torquay terrace .
thus i got at his address . "
" smart - very smart ! " murmured sherlock holmes .
" i next called upon madame charpentier , " continued the detective .
" i found her very pale and distressed .
her daughter was in the room , too - an uncommonly fine girl she is , too ; she was looking red about the eyes and her lips trembled as i spoke to her .
that didn 't escape my notice . i began to smell a rat .
you know the feeling , mr. sherlock holmes , when you come upon the right scent - a kind of thrill in your nerves .
'have you heard of the mysterious death of your late boarder mr. enoch j. drebber , of cleveland ? '
" the mother nodded . she didn 't seem able to get out a word .
the daughter burst into tears .
i felt more than ever that these people knew something of the matter .
" ' at what o 'clock did mr .
drebber leave your house for the train ? ' i asked .
" ' at eight o 'clock , ' she said , gulping in her throat to keep down her agitation .
'his secretary , mr. stangerson , said that there were two trains - one at 9.15 and one at 11 .
he was to catch the first .
" ' and was that the last which you saw of him ? '
" a terrible change came over the woman 's face as i asked the question .
her features turned perfectly livid . it was some seconds before she could get out the single word ' yes ' - and when it did come it was in a husky unnatural tone .
" there was silence for a moment , and then the daughter spoke in a calm clear voice .
" ' no good can ever come of falsehood , mother , ' she said . ' let us be frank with this gentleman .
we did see mr. drebber again . '
" ' god forgive you ! ' cried madame charpentier , throwing up her hands and sinking back in her chair .
'you have murdered your brother . '
" ' arthur would rather that we spoke the truth , ' the girl answered firmly .
" ' you had best tell me all about it now , ' i said . ' half-confidences are worse than none .
besides , you do not know how much we know of it . '
" ' on your head be it , alice ! ' cried her mother ; and then , turning to me , ' i will tell you all , sir .
do not imagine that my agitation on behalf of my son arises from any fear lest he should have had a hand in this terrible affair . he is utterly innocent of it .
my dread is , however , that in your eyes and in the eyes of others he may appear to be compromised .
that however is surely impossible . his high character , his profession , his antecedents would all forbid it . '
" ' your best way is to make a clean breast of the facts , ' i answered . ' depend upon it , if your son is innocent he will be none the worse . '
" ' perhaps , alice , you had better leave us together , ' she said , and her daughter withdrew .
'now , sir , ' she continued , ' i had no intention of telling you all this , but since my poor daughter has disclosed it i have no alternative .
having once decided to speak , i will tell you all without omitting any particular . '
" ' it is your wisest course , ' said i .
" ' mr. drebber has been with us nearly three weeks .
he and his secretary , mr. stangerson , had been travelling on the continent .
i noticed a " copenhagen " label upon each of their trunks , showing that that had been their last stopping place .
stangerson was a quiet reserved man , but his employer , i am sorry to say , was far otherwise .
he was coarse in his habits and brutish in his ways .
the very night of his arrival he became very much the worse for drink , and , indeed , after twelve o 'clock in the day he could hardly ever be said to be sober . his manners towards the maid-servants were disgustingly free and familiar .
worst of all , he speedily assumed the same attitude towards my daughter , alice , and spoke to her more than once in a way which , fortunately , she is too innocent to understand .
on one occasion he actually seized her in his arms and embraced her - an outrage which caused his own secretary to reproach him for his unmanly conduct . '
" ' but why did you stand all this , ' i asked .
'i suppose that you can get rid of your boarders when you wish . '
charpentier blushed at my pertinent question . ' would to god that i had given him notice on the very day that he came , ' she said .
'but it was a sore temptation .
they were paying a pound a day each - fourteen pounds a week , and this is the slack season .
i am a widow , and my boy in the navy has cost me much .
i grudged to lose the money . i acted for the best .
this last was too much , however , and i gave him notice to leave on account of it .
that was the reason of his going . '
" ' well ? '
" ' my heart grew light when i saw him drive away .
my son is on leave just now , but i did not tell him anything of all this , for his temper is violent , and he is passionately fond of his sister . when i closed the door behind them a load seemed to be lifted from my mind .
alas , in less than an hour there was a ring at the bell , and i learned that mr .
drebber had returned . he was much excited , and evidently the worse for drink .
he forced his way into the room , where i was sitting with my daughter , and made some incoherent remark about having missed his train .
he then turned to alice , and before my very face , proposed to her that she should fly with him . " you are of age , " he said , " and there is no law to stop you .
i have money enough and to spare .
never mind the old girl here , but come along with me now straight away .
you shall live like a princess . "
poor alice was so frightened that she shrunk away from him , but he caught her by the wrist and endeavoured to draw her towards the door . i screamed , and at that moment my son arthur came into the room .
what happened then i do not know . i heard oaths and the confused sounds of a scuffle .
i was too terrified to raise my head .
when i did look up i saw arthur standing in the doorway laughing , with a stick in his hand .
" i don 't think that fine fellow will trouble us again , " he said . " i will just go after him and see what he does with himself . "
with those words he took his hat and started off down the street .
the next morning we heard of mr. drebber 's mysterious death . '
" this statement came from mrs. charpentier 's lips with many gasps and pauses .
at times she spoke so low that i could hardly catch the words .
i made shorthand notes of all that she said , however , so that there should be no possibility of a mistake . "
" it 's quite exciting , " said sherlock holmes , with a yawn .
" what happened next ? "
" when mrs. charpentier paused , " the detective continued , " i saw that the whole case hung upon one point .
fixing her with my eye in a way which i always found effective with women , i asked her at what hour her son returned .
" ' i do not know , ' she answered .
" ' not know ? '
" ' no ; he has a latch-key , and he let himself in . '
" ' after you went to bed ? '
" ' yes . '
" ' when did you go to bed ? '
" ' about eleven . '
" ' so your son was gone at least two hours ? '
" ' yes . '
" ' possibly four or five ? '
" ' yes . '
" ' what was he doing during that time ? '
" ' i do not know , ' she answered , turning white to her very lips .
" of course after that there was nothing more to be done .
i found out where lieutenant charpentier was , took two officers with me , and arrested him .
when i touched him on the shoulder and warned him to come quietly with us , he answered us as bold as brass , ' i suppose you are arresting me for being concerned in the death of that scoundrel drebber , ' he said .
we had said nothing to him about it , so that his alluding to it had a most suspicious aspect . "
" very , " said holmes .
" he still carried the heavy stick which the mother described him as having with him when he followed drebber .
it was a stout oak cudgel . "
" what is your theory , then ? "
" well , my theory is that he followed drebber as far as the brixton road .
when there , a fresh altercation arose between them , in the course of which drebber received a blow from the stick , in the pit of the stomach , perhaps , which killed him without leaving any mark .
the night was so wet that no one was about , so charpentier dragged the body of his victim into the empty house .
as to the candle , and the blood , and the writing on the wall , and the ring , they may all be so many tricks to throw the police on to the wrong scent . "
" well done ! " said holmes in an encouraging voice .
" really , gregson , you are getting along .
we shall make something of you yet . "
" i flatter myself that i have managed it rather neatly , " the detective answered proudly .
" the young man volunteered a statement , in which he said that after following drebber some time , the latter perceived him , and took a cab in order to get away from him .
on his way home he met an old shipmate , and took a long walk with him .
on being asked where this old shipmate lived , he was unable to give any satisfactory reply .
i think the whole case fits together uncommonly well .
what amuses me is to think of lestrade , who had started off upon the wrong scent .
i am afraid he won 't make much of it .
why , by jove , here 's the very man himself ! "
it was indeed lestrade , who had ascended the stairs while we were talking , and who now entered the room .
the assurance and jauntiness which generally marked his demeanour and dress were , however , wanting .
his face was disturbed and troubled , while his clothes were disarranged and untidy .
he had evidently come with the intention of consulting with sherlock holmes , for on perceiving his colleague he appeared to be embarrassed and put out .
he stood in the centre of the room , fumbling nervously with his hat and uncertain what to do . " this is a most extraordinary case , " he said at last - " a most incomprehensible affair . "
" ah , you find it so , mr. lestrade ! " cried gregson , triumphantly .
" i thought you would come to that conclusion .
have you managed to find the secretary , mr. joseph stangerson ? "
" the secretary , mr. joseph stangerson , " said lestrade gravely , " was murdered at halliday 's private hotel about six o 'clock this morning . "
chapter vii . light in the darkness .
the intelligence with which lestrade greeted us was so momentous and so unexpected , that we were all three fairly dumfoundered .
gregson sprang out of his chair and upset the remainder of his whiskey and water .
i stared in silence at sherlock holmes , whose lips were compressed and his brows drawn down over his eyes .
" stangerson too ! " he muttered . " the plot thickens . "
" it was quite thick enough before , " grumbled lestrade , taking a chair .
" i seem to have dropped into a sort of council of war . "
" are you - are you sure of this piece of intelligence ? " stammered gregson .
" i have just come from his room , " said lestrade . " i was the first to discover what had occurred . "
" we have been hearing gregson 's view of the matter , " holmes observed .
" would you mind letting us know what you have seen and done ? "
" i have no objection , " lestrade answered , seating himself .
" i freely confess that i was of the opinion that stangerson was concerned in the death of drebber . this fresh development has shown me that i was completely mistaken .
full of the one idea , i set myself to find out what had become of the secretary .
they had been seen together at euston station about half-past eight on the evening of the third .
at two in the morning drebber had been found in the brixton road . the question which confronted me was to find out how stangerson had been employed between 8.30 and the time of the crime , and what had become of him afterwards .
i telegraphed to liverpool , giving a description of the man , and warning them to keep a watch upon the american boats .
i then set to work calling upon all the hotels and lodging-houses in the vicinity of euston .
you see , i argued that if drebber and his companion had become separated , the natural course for the latter would be to put up somewhere in the vicinity for the night , and then to hang about the station again next morning . "
" they would be likely to agree on some meeting-place beforehand , " remarked holmes .
" so it proved .
i spent the whole of yesterday evening in making enquiries entirely without avail .
this morning i began very early , and at eight o 'clock i reached halliday 's private hotel , in little george street . on my enquiry as to whether a mr .
stangerson was living there , they at once answered me in the affirmative .
" ' no doubt you are the gentleman whom he was expecting , ' they said .
'he has been waiting for a gentleman for two days . '
" ' where is he now ? ' i asked .
" ' he is upstairs in bed .
he wished to be called at nine . '
" ' i will go up and see him at once , ' i said .
" it seemed to me that my sudden appearance might shake his nerves and lead him to say something unguarded .
the boots volunteered to show me the room : it was on the second floor , and there was a small corridor leading up to it .
the boots pointed out the door to me , and was about to go downstairs again when i saw something that made me feel sickish , in spite of my twenty years ' experience .
from under the door there curled a little red ribbon of blood , which had meandered across the passage and formed a little pool along the skirting at the other side .
i gave a cry , which brought the boots back .
he nearly fainted when he saw it .
the door was locked on the inside , but we put our shoulders to it , and knocked it in .
the window of the room was open , and beside the window , all huddled up , lay the body of a man in his nightdress .
he was quite dead , and had been for some time , for his limbs were rigid and cold .
when we turned him over , the boots recognized him at once as being the same gentleman who had engaged the room under the name of joseph stangerson .
the cause of death was a deep stab in the left side , which must have penetrated the heart .
and now comes the strangest part of the affair .
what do you suppose was above the murdered man ? "
i felt a creeping of the flesh , and a presentiment of coming horror , even before sherlock holmes answered .
" the word rache , written in letters of blood , " he said .
" that was it , " said lestrade , in an awe-struck voice ; and we were all silent for a while .
there was something so methodical and so incomprehensible about the deeds of this unknown assassin , that it imparted a fresh ghastliness to his crimes .
my nerves , which were steady enough on the field of battle tingled as i thought of it .
" the man was seen , " continued lestrade .
" a milk boy , passing on his way to the dairy , happened to walk down the lane which leads from the mews at the back of the hotel .
he noticed that a ladder , which usually lay there , was raised against one of the windows of the second floor , which was wide open .
after passing , he looked back and saw a man descend the ladder .
he came down so quietly and openly that the boy imagined him to be some carpenter or joiner at work in the hotel .
he took no particular notice of him , beyond thinking in his own mind that it was early for him to be at work .
he has an impression that the man was tall , had a reddish face , and was dressed in a long , brownish coat .
he must have stayed in the room some little time after the murder , for we found blood-stained water in the basin , where he had washed his hands , and marks on the sheets where he had deliberately wiped his knife . "
i glanced at holmes on hearing the description of the murderer , which tallied so exactly with his own . there was , however , no trace of exultation or satisfaction upon his face .
" did you find nothing in the room which could furnish a clue to the murderer ? " he asked .
" nothing . stangerson had drebber 's purse in his pocket , but it seems that this was usual , as he did all the paying .
there was eighty odd pounds in it , but nothing had been taken .
whatever the motives of these extraordinary crimes , robbery is certainly not one of them .
there were no papers or memoranda in the murdered man 's pocket , except a single telegram , dated from cleveland about a month ago , and containing the words , ' j. h. is in europe . '
there was no name appended to this message . "
" and there was nothing else ? " holmes asked .
" nothing of any importance .
the man 's novel , with which he had read himself to sleep was lying upon the bed , and his pipe was on a chair beside him .
there was a glass of water on the table , and on the window-sill a small chip ointment box containing a couple of pills . "
sherlock holmes sprang from his chair with an exclamation of delight .
" the last link , " he cried , exultantly . " my case is complete . "
the two detectives stared at him in amazement .
" i have now in my hands , " my companion said , confidently , " all the threads which have formed such a tangle .
there are , of course , details to be filled in , but i am as certain of all the main facts , from the time that drebber parted from stangerson at the station , up to the discovery of the body of the latter , as if i had seen them with my own eyes . i will give you a proof of my knowledge .
could you lay your hand upon those pills ? "
" i have them , " said lestrade , producing a small white box ; " i took them and the purse and the telegram , intending to have them put in a place of safety at the police station .
it was the merest chance my taking these pills , for i am bound to say that i do not attach any importance to them . "
" give them here , " said holmes .
" now , doctor , " turning to me , " are those ordinary pills ? "
they certainly were not .
they were of a pearly grey colour , small , round , and almost transparent against the light .
" from their lightness and transparency , i should imagine that they are soluble in water , " i remarked .
" precisely so , " answered holmes .
" now would you mind going down and fetching that poor little devil of a terrier which has been bad so long , and which the landlady wanted you to put out of its pain yesterday . "
i went downstairs and carried the dog upstair in my arms .
it 's laboured breathing and glazing eye showed that it was not far from its end .
indeed , its snow-white muzzle proclaimed that it had already exceeded the usual term of canine existence .
i placed it upon a cushion on the rug .
" i will now cut one of these pills in two , " said holmes , and drawing his penknife he suited the action to the word . " one half we return into the box for future purposes .
the other half i will place in this wine glass , in which is a teaspoonful of water . you perceive that our friend , the doctor , is right , and that it readily dissolves . "
" this may be very interesting , " said lestrade , in the injured tone of one who suspects that he is being laughed at , " i cannot see , however , what it has to do with the death of mr. joseph stangerson . "
" patience , my friend , patience !
you will find in time that it has everything to do with it .
i shall now add a little milk to make the mixture palatable , and on presenting it to the dog we find that he laps it up readily enough . "
as he spoke he turned the contents of the wine glass into a saucer and placed it in front of the terrier , who speedily licked it dry .
sherlock holmes ' earnest demeanour had so far convinced us that we all sat in silence , watching the animal intently , and expecting some startling effect .
none such appeared , however .
the dog continued to lie stretched upon the cushion , breathing in a laboured way , but apparently neither the better nor the worse for its draught .
holmes had taken out his watch , and as minute followed minute without result , an expression of the utmost chagrin and disappointment appeared upon his features .
he gnawed his lip , drummed his fingers upon the table , and showed every other symptom of acute impatience .
so great was his emotion , that i felt sincerely sorry for him , while the two detectives smiled derisively , by no means displeased at this check which he had met .
" it can 't be a coincidence , " he cried , at last springing from his chair and pacing wildly up and down the room ; " it is impossible that it should be a mere coincidence .
the very pills which i suspected in the case of drebber are actually found after the death of stangerson .
and yet they are inert .
what can it mean ?
surely my whole chain of reasoning cannot have been false .
it is impossible !
and yet this wretched dog is none the worse .
ah , i have it ! i have it ! "
with a perfect shriek of delight he rushed to the box , cut the other pill in two , dissolved it , added milk , and presented it to the terrier .
the unfortunate creature 's tongue seemed hardly to have been moistened in it before it gave a convulsive shiver in every limb , and lay as rigid and lifeless as if it had been struck by lightning .
sherlock holmes drew a long breath , and wiped the perspiration from his forehead . " i should have more faith , " he said ; " i ought to know by this time that when a fact appears to be opposed to a long train of deductions , it invariably proves to be capable of bearing some other interpretation .
of the two pills in that box one was of the most deadly poison , and the other was entirely harmless .
i ought to have known that before ever i saw the box at all . "
this last statement appeared to me to be so startling , that i could hardly believe that he was in his sober senses .
there was the dead dog , however , to prove that his conjecture had been correct .
it seemed to me that the mists in my own mind were gradually clearing away , and i began to have a dim , vague perception of the truth .
" all this seems strange to you , " continued holmes , " because you failed at the beginning of the inquiry to grasp the importance of the single real clue which was presented to you .
i had the good fortune to seize upon that , and everything which has occurred since then has served to confirm my original supposition , and , indeed , was the logical sequence of it .
hence things which have perplexed you and made the case more obscure , have served to enlighten me and to strengthen my conclusions .
it is a mistake to confound strangeness with mystery .
the most commonplace crime is often the most mysterious because it presents no new or special features from which deductions may be drawn .
this murder would have been infinitely more difficult to unravel had the body of the victim been simply found lying in the roadway without any of those outre and sensational accompaniments which have rendered it remarkable .
these strange details , far from making the case more difficult , have really had the effect of making it less so . "
gregson , who had listened to this address with considerable impatience , could contain himself no longer . " look here , mr .
sherlock holmes , " he said , " we are all ready to acknowledge that you are a smart man , and that you have your own methods of working . we want something more than mere theory and preaching now , though .
it is a case of taking the man .
i have made my case out , and it seems i was wrong .
young charpentier could not have been engaged in this second affair .
lestrade went after his man , stangerson , and it appears that he was wrong too .
you have thrown out hints here , and hints there , and seem to know more than we do , but the time has come when we feel that we have a right to ask you straight how much you do know of the business .
can you name the man who did it ? "
" i cannot help feeling that gregson is right , sir , " remarked lestrade .
" we have both tried , and we have both failed .
you have remarked more than once since i have been in the room that you had all the evidence which you require . surely you will not withhold it any longer . "
" any delay in arresting the assassin , " i observed , " might give him time to perpetrate some fresh atrocity . "
thus pressed by us all , holmes showed signs of irresolution .
he continued to walk up and down the room with his head sunk on his chest and his brows drawn down , as was his habit when lost in thought .
" there will be no more murders , " he said at last , stopping abruptly and facing us .
" you can put that consideration out of the question .
you have asked me if i know the name of the assassin .
i do .
the mere knowing of his name is a small thing , however , compared with the power of laying our hands upon him .
this i expect very shortly to do .
i have good hopes of managing it through my own arrangements ; but it is a thing which needs delicate handling , for we have a shrewd and desperate man to deal with , who is supported , as i have had occasion to prove , by another who is as clever as himself .
as long as this man has no idea that anyone can have a clue there is some chance of securing him ; but if he had the slightest suspicion , he would change his name , and vanish in an instant among the four million inhabitants of this great city .
without meaning to hurt either of your feelings , i am bound to say that i consider these men to be more than a match for the official force , and that is why i have not asked your assistance .
if i fail i shall , of course , incur all the blame due to this omission ; but that i am prepared for .
at present i am ready to promise that the instant that i can communicate with you without endangering my own combinations , i shall do so . "
gregson and lestrade seemed to be far from satisfied by this assurance , or by the depreciating allusion to the detective police .
the former had flushed up to the roots of his flaxen hair , while the other 's beady eyes glistened with curiosity and resentment .
neither of them had time to speak , however , before there was a tap at the door , and the spokesman of the street arabs , young wiggins , introduced his insignificant and unsavoury person .
" please , sir , " he said , touching his forelock , " i have the cab downstairs . "
" good boy , " said holmes , blandly .
" why don 't you introduce this pattern at scotland yard ? " he continued , taking a pair of steel handcuffs from a drawer .
" see how beautifully the spring works . they fasten in an instant . "
" the old pattern is good enough , " remarked lestrade , " if we can only find the man to put them on . "
" very good , very good , " said holmes , smiling .
" the cabman may as well help me with my boxes .
just ask him to step up , wiggins . "
i was surprised to find my companion speaking as though he were about to set out on a journey , since he had not said anything to me about it .
there was a small portmanteau in the room , and this he pulled out and began to strap .
he was busily engaged at it when the cabman entered the room .
" just give me a help with this buckle , cabman , " he said , kneeling over his task , and never turning his head .
the fellow came forward with a somewhat sullen , defiant air , and put down his hands to assist .
at that instant there was a sharp click , the jangling of metal , and sherlock holmes sprang to his feet again .
" gentlemen , " he cried , with flashing eyes , " let me introduce you to mr. jefferson hope , the murderer of enoch drebber and of joseph stangerson . "
the whole thing occurred in a moment - so quickly that i had no time to realize it . i have a vivid recollection of that instant , of holmes ' triumphant expression and the ring of his voice , of the cabman 's dazed , savage face , as he glared at the glittering handcuffs , which had appeared as if by magic upon his wrists .
for a second or two we might have been a group of statues .
then , with an inarticulate roar of fury , the prisoner wrenched himself free from holmes 's grasp , and hurled himself through the window .
woodwork and glass gave way before him ; but before he got quite through , gregson , lestrade , and holmes sprang upon him like so many staghounds .
he was dragged back into the room , and then commenced a terrific conflict .
so powerful and so fierce was he , that the four of us were shaken off again and again .
he appeared to have the convulsive strength of a man in an epileptic fit .
his face and hands were terribly mangled by his passage through the glass , but loss of blood had no effect in diminishing his resistance .
it was not until lestrade succeeded in getting his hand inside his neckcloth and half-strangling him that we made him realize that his struggles were of no avail ; and even then we felt no security until we had pinioned his feet as well as his hands .
that done , we rose to our feet breathless and panting .
" we have his cab , " said sherlock holmes .
" it will serve to take him to scotland yard .
and now , gentlemen , " he continued , with a pleasant smile , " we have reached the end of our little mystery .
you are very welcome to put any questions that you like to me now , and there is no danger that i will refuse to answer them . "
part ii . the country of the saints .
chapter i. on the great alkali plain .
in the central portion of the great north american continent there lies an arid and repulsive desert , which for many a long year served as a barrier against the advance of civilisation .
from the sierra nevada to nebraska , and from the yellowstone river in the north to the colorado upon the south , is a region of desolation and silence .
nor is nature always in one mood throughout this grim district .
it comprises snow-capped and lofty mountains , and dark and gloomy valleys .
there are swift-flowing rivers which dash through jagged canons ; and there are enormous plains , which in winter are white with snow , and in summer are grey with the saline alkali dust .
they all preserve , however , the common characteristics of barrenness , inhospitality , and misery .
there are no inhabitants of this land of despair .
a band of pawnees or of blackfeet may occasionally traverse it in order to reach other hunting-grounds , but the hardiest of the braves are glad to lose sight of those awesome plains , and to find themselves once more upon their prairies .
the coyote skulks among the scrub , the buzzard flaps heavily through the air , and the clumsy grizzly bear lumbers through the dark ravines , and picks up such sustenance as it can amongst the rocks . these are the sole dwellers in the wilderness .
in the whole world there can be no more dreary view than that from the northern slope of the sierra blanco .
as far as the eye can reach stretches the great flat plain-land , all dusted over with patches of alkali , and intersected by clumps of the dwarfish chaparral bushes . on the extreme verge of the horizon lie a long chain of mountain peaks , with their rugged summits flecked with snow .
in this great stretch of country there is no sign of life , nor of anything appertaining to life . there is no bird in the steel-blue heaven , no movement upon the dull , grey earth - above all , there is absolute silence .
listen as one may , there is no shadow of a sound in all that mighty wilderness ; nothing but silence - complete and heart-subduing silence .
it has been said there is nothing appertaining to life upon the broad plain .
that is hardly true . looking down from the sierra blanco , one sees a pathway traced out across the desert , which winds away and is lost in the extreme distance .
it is rutted with wheels and trodden down by the feet of many adventurers .
here and there there are scattered white objects which glisten in the sun , and stand out against the dull deposit of alkali . approach , and examine them !
they are bones : some large and coarse , others smaller and more delicate . the former have belonged to oxen , and the latter to men .
for fifteen hundred miles one may trace this ghastly caravan route by these scattered remains of those who had fallen by the wayside .
looking down on this very scene , there stood upon the fourth of may , eighteen hundred and forty-seven , a solitary traveller .
his appearance was such that he might have been the very genius or demon of the region .
an observer would have found it difficult to say whether he was nearer to forty or to sixty .
his face was lean and haggard , and the brown parchment-like skin was drawn tightly over the projecting bones ; his long , brown hair and beard were all flecked and dashed with white ; his eyes were sunken in his head , and burned with an unnatural lustre ; while the hand which grasped his rifle was hardly more fleshy than that of a skeleton .
as he stood , he leaned upon his weapon for support , and yet his tall figure and the massive framework of his bones suggested a wiry and vigorous constitution .
his gaunt face , however , and his clothes , which hung so baggily over his shrivelled limbs , proclaimed what it was that gave him that senile and decrepit appearance . the man was dying - dying from hunger and from thirst .
he had toiled painfully down the ravine , and on to this little elevation , in the vain hope of seeing some signs of water .
now the great salt plain stretched before his eyes , and the distant belt of savage mountains , without a sign anywhere of plant or tree , which might indicate the presence of moisture .
in all that broad landscape there was no gleam of hope .
north , and east , and west he looked with wild questioning eyes , and then he realised that his wanderings had come to an end , and that there , on that barren crag , he was about to die .
" why not here , as well as in a feather bed , twenty years hence , " he muttered , as he seated himself in the shelter of a boulder .
before sitting down , he had deposited upon the ground his useless rifle , and also a large bundle tied up in a grey shawl , which he had carried slung over his right shoulder .
it appeared to be somewhat too heavy for his strength , for in lowering it , it came down on the ground with some little violence .
instantly there broke from the grey parcel a little moaning cry , and from it there protruded a small , scared face , with very bright brown eyes , and two little speckled , dimpled fists .
" you 've hurt me ! " said a childish voice reproachfully .
" have i though , " the man answered penitently , " i didn 't go for to do it . "
as he spoke he unwrapped the grey shawl and extricated a pretty little girl of about five years of age , whose dainty shoes and smart pink frock with its little linen apron all bespoke a mother 's care .
the child was pale and wan , but her healthy arms and legs showed that she had suffered less than her companion .
" how is it now ? " he answered anxiously , for she was still rubbing the towsy golden curls which covered the back of her head .
" kiss it and make it well , " she said , with perfect gravity , shoving the injured part up to him .
" that 's what mother used to do .
where 's mother ? "
" mother 's gone .
i guess you 'll see her before long . "
" gone , eh ! " said the little girl .
" funny , she didn 't say good-bye ; she ' most always did if she was just goin ' over to auntie 's for tea , and now she 's been away three days .
say , it 's awful dry , ain 't it ?
ain 't there no water , nor nothing to eat ? "
" no , there ain 't nothing , dearie .
you 'll just need to be patient awhile , and then you 'll be all right .
put your head up agin me like that , and then you 'll feel bullier .
it ain 't easy to talk when your lips is like leather , but i guess i 'd best let you know how the cards lie . what 's that you 've got ? "
" pretty things ! fine things ! " cried the little girl enthusiastically , holding up two glittering fragments of mica .
" when we goes back to home i 'll give them to brother bob . "
" you 'll see prettier things than them soon , " said the man confidently . " you just wait a bit .
i was going to tell you though - you remember when we left the river ? "
" oh , yes . "
" well , we reckoned we 'd strike another river soon , d 'ye see . but there was somethin ' wrong ; compasses , or map , or somethin ' , and it didn 't turn up .
water ran out . just except a little drop for the likes of you and - and - - "
" and you couldn 't wash yourself , " interrupted his companion gravely , staring up at his grimy visage .
bender , he was the fust to go , and then indian pete , and then mrs. mcgregor , and then johnny hones , and then , dearie , your mother . "
" then mother 's a deader too , " cried the little girl dropping her face in her pinafore and sobbing bitterly .
" yes , they all went except you and me .
then i thought there was some chance of water in this direction , so i heaved you over my shoulder and we tramped it together . it don 't seem as though we 've improved matters .
" do you mean that we are going to die too ? " asked the child , checking her sobs , and raising her tear-stained face .
" i guess that 's about the size of it . "
" why didn 't you say so before ? " she said , laughing gleefully .
" you gave me such a fright .
why , of course , now as long as we die we 'll be with mother again . "
" yes , you will , dearie . "
" and you too .
i 'll tell her how awful good you 've been .
i 'll bet she meets us at the door of heaven with a big pitcher of water , and a lot of buckwheat cakes , hot , and toasted on both sides , like bob and me was fond of .
how long will it be first ? "
" i don 't know - not very long . "
the man 's eyes were fixed upon the northern horizon .
in the blue vault of the heaven there had appeared three little specks which increased in size every moment , so rapidly did they approach .
they speedily resolved themselves into three large brown birds , which circled over the heads of the two wanderers , and then settled upon some rocks which overlooked them .
they were buzzards , the vultures of the west , whose coming is the forerunner of death .
" cocks and hens , " cried the little girl gleefully , pointing at their ill-omened forms , and clapping her hands to make them rise .
" say , did god make this country ? "
" in course he did , " said her companion , rather startled by this unexpected question .
" he made the country down in illinois , and he made the missouri , " the little girl continued . " i guess somebody else made the country in these parts .
it 's not nearly so well done . they forgot the water and the trees . "
" what would ye think of offering up prayer ? " the man asked diffidently .
" it ain 't night yet , " she answered .
" it don 't matter . it ain 't quite regular , but he won 't mind that , you bet .
you say over them ones that you used to say every night in the waggon when we was on the plains . "
" why don 't you say some yourself ? " the child asked , with wondering eyes .
" i disremember them , " he answered .
" i hain 't said none since i was half the height o ' that gun . i guess it 's never too late .
you say them out , and i 'll stand by and come in on the choruses . "
" then you 'll need to kneel down , and me too , " she said , laying the shawl out for that purpose . " you 've got to put your hands up like this .
it was a strange sight had there been anything but the buzzards to see it .
side by side on the narrow shawl knelt the two wanderers , the little prattling child and the reckless , hardened adventurer .
her chubby face , and his haggard , angular visage were both turned up to the cloudless heaven in heartfelt entreaty to that dread being with whom they were face to face , while the two voices - the one thin and clear , the other deep and harsh - united in the entreaty for mercy and forgiveness .
the prayer finished , they resumed their seat in the shadow of the boulder until the child fell asleep , nestling upon the broad breast of her protector .
he watched over her slumber for some time , but nature proved to be too strong for him .
for three days and three nights he had allowed himself neither rest nor repose .
slowly the eyelids drooped over the tired eyes , and the head sunk lower and lower upon the breast , until the man 's grizzled beard was mixed with the gold tresses of his companion , and both slept the same deep and dreamless slumber .
had the wanderer remained awake for another half hour a strange sight would have met his eyes .
far away on the extreme verge of the alkali plain there rose up a little spray of dust , very slight at first , and hardly to be distinguished from the mists of the distance , but gradually growing higher and broader until it formed a solid , well-defined cloud .
this cloud continued to increase in size until it became evident that it could only be raised by a great multitude of moving creatures . in more fertile spots the observer would have come to the conclusion that one of those great herds of bisons which graze upon the prairie land was approaching him .
this was obviously impossible in these arid wilds . as the whirl of dust drew nearer to the solitary bluff upon which the two castaways were reposing , the canvas-covered tilts of waggons and the figures of armed horsemen began to show up through the haze , and the apparition revealed itself as being a great caravan upon its journey for the west .
but what a caravan !
when the head of it had reached the base of the mountains , the rear was not yet visible on the horizon .
right across the enormous plain stretched the straggling array , waggons and carts , men on horseback , and men on foot .
innumerable women who staggered along under burdens , and children who toddled beside the waggons or peeped out from under the white coverings .
this was evidently no ordinary party of immigrants , but rather some nomad people who had been compelled from stress of circumstances to seek themselves a new country .
there rose through the clear air a confused clattering and rumbling from this great mass of humanity , with the creaking of wheels and the neighing of horses .
loud as it was , it was not sufficient to rouse the two tired wayfarers above them .
at the head of the column there rode a score or more of grave ironfaced men , clad in sombre homespun garments and armed with rifles .
on reaching the base of the bluff they halted , and held a short council among themselves .
" the wells are to the right , my brothers , " said one , a hard-lipped , clean-shaven man with grizzly hair .
" to the right of the sierra blanco - so we shall reach the rio grande , " said another .
" fear not for water , " cried a third .
" he who could draw it from the rocks will not now abandon his own chosen people . "
" amen ! amen ! " responded the whole party .
they were about to resume their journey when one of the youngest and keenest-eyed uttered an exclamation and pointed up at the rugged crag above them .
from its summit there fluttered a little wisp of pink , showing up hard and bright against the grey rocks behind .
at the sight there was a general reining up of horses and unslinging of guns , while fresh horsemen came galloping up to reinforce the vanguard .
the word ' redskins ' was on every lip .
" there can 't be any number of injuns here , " said the elderly man who appeared to be in command .
" we have passed the pawnees , and there are no other tribes until we cross the great mountains . "
" shall i go forward and see , brother stangerson , " asked one of the band .
" and i , " " and i , " cried a dozen voices .
" leave your horses below and we will await you here , " the elder answered .
in a moment the young fellows had dismounted , fastened their horses , and were ascending the precipitous slope which led up to the object which had excited their curiosity .
they advanced rapidly and noiselessly , with the confidence and dexterity of practised scouts .
the watchers from the plain below could see them flit from rock to rock until their figures stood out against the skyline .
the young man who had first given the alarm was leading them . suddenly his followers saw him throw up his hands , as though overcome with astonishment , and on joining him they were affected in the same way by the sight which met their eyes .
on the little plateau which crowned the barren hill there stood a single giant boulder , and against this boulder there lay a tall man , long-bearded and hard-featured , but of an excessive thinness .
his placid face and regular breathing showed that he was fast asleep .
beside him lay a little child , with her round white arms encircling his brown sinewy neck , and her golden haired head resting upon the breast of his velveteen tunic .
her rosy lips were parted , showing the regular line of snow-white teeth within , and a playful smile played over her infantile features .
her plump little white legs terminating in white socks and neat shoes with shining buckles , offered a strange contrast to the long shrivelled members of her companion .
on the ledge of rock above this strange couple there stood three solemn buzzards , who , at the sight of the new comers uttered raucous screams of disappointment and flapped sullenly away .
the cries of the foul birds awoke the two sleepers who stared about them in bewilderment .
the man staggered to his feet and looked down upon the plain which had been so desolate when sleep had overtaken him , and which was now traversed by this enormous body of men and of beasts .
his face assumed an expression of incredulity as he gazed , and he passed his boney hand over his eyes .
" this is what they call delirium , i guess , " he muttered .
the child stood beside him , holding on to the skirt of his coat , and said nothing but looked all round her with the wondering questioning gaze of childhood .
the rescuing party were speedily able to convince the two castaways that their appearance was no delusion .
one of them seized the little girl , and hoisted her upon his shoulder , while two others supported her gaunt companion , and assisted him towards the waggons .
" my name is john ferrier , " the wanderer explained ; " me and that little un are all that 's left o ' twenty-one people .
the rest is all dead o ' thirst and hunger away down in the south . "
" is she your child ? " asked someone .
" i guess she is now , " the other cried , defiantly ; " she 's mine ' cause i saved her . no man will take her from me .
she 's lucy ferrier from this day on .
who are you , though ? " he continued , glancing with curiosity at his stalwart , sunburned rescuers ; " there seems to be a powerful lot of ye . "
" nigh upon ten thousand , " said one of the young men ; " we are the persecuted children of god - the chosen of the angel merona . "
" i never heard tell on him , " said the wanderer . " he appears to have chosen a fair crowd of ye . "
" do not jest at that which is sacred , " said the other sternly .
" we are of those who believe in those sacred writings , drawn in egyptian letters on plates of beaten gold , which were handed unto the holy joseph smith at palmyra .
we have come from nauvoo , in the state of illinois , where we had founded our temple .
we have come to seek a refuge from the violent man and from the godless , even though it be the heart of the desert . "
the name of nauvoo evidently recalled recollections to john ferrier .
" i see , " he said , " you are the mormons . "
" we are the mormons , " answered his companions with one voice .
" and where are you going ? "
" we do not know .
the hand of god is leading us under the person of our prophet .
you must come before him . he shall say what is to be done with you . "
they had reached the base of the hill by this time , and were surrounded by crowds of the pilgrims - pale-faced meek-looking women , strong laughing children , and anxious earnest-eyed men .
many were the cries of astonishment and of commiseration which arose from them when they perceived the youth of one of the strangers and the destitution of the other .
their escort did not halt , however , but pushed on , followed by a great crowd of mormons , until they reached a waggon , which was conspicuous for its great size and for the gaudiness and smartness of its appearance .
six horses were yoked to it , whereas the others were furnished with two , or , at most , four a-piece .
beside the driver there sat a man who could not have been more than thirty years of age , but whose massive head and resolute expression marked him as a leader .
he was reading a brown-backed volume , but as the crowd approached he laid it aside , and listened attentively to an account of the episode .
then he turned to the two castaways .
" if we take you with us , " he said , in solemn words , " it can only be as believers in our own creed .
we shall have no wolves in our fold .
better far that your bones should bleach in this wilderness than that you should prove to be that little speck of decay which in time corrupts the whole fruit .
will you come with us on these terms ? "
" guess i 'll come with you on any terms , " said ferrier , with such emphasis that the grave elders could not restrain a smile . the leader alone retained his stern , impressive expression .
" take him , brother stangerson , " he said , " give him food and drink , and the child likewise . let it be your task also to teach him our holy creed .
we have delayed long enough . forward !
" on , on to zion ! " cried the crowd of mormons , and the words rippled down the long caravan , passing from mouth to mouth until they died away in a dull murmur in the far distance .
with a cracking of whips and a creaking of wheels the great waggons got into motion , and soon the whole caravan was winding along once more .
the elder to whose care the two waifs had been committed , led them to his waggon , where a meal was already awaiting them .
" you shall remain here , " he said .
" in a few days you will have recovered from your fatigues .
in the meantime , remember that now and for ever you are of our religion .
brigham young has said it , and he has spoken with the voice of joseph smith , which is the voice of god . "
chapter ii . the flower of utah .
this is not the place to commemorate the trials and privations endured by the immigrant mormons before they came to their final haven .
from the shores of the mississippi to the western slopes of the rocky mountains they had struggled on with a constancy almost unparalleled in history .
the savage man , and the savage beast , hunger , thirst , fatigue , and disease - every impediment which nature could place in the way , had all been overcome with anglo-saxon tenacity .
yet the long journey and the accumulated terrors had shaken the hearts of the stoutest among them .
there was not one who did not sink upon his knees in heartfelt prayer when they saw the broad valley of utah bathed in the sunlight beneath them , and learned from the lips of their leader that this was the promised land , and that these virgin acres were to be theirs for evermore .
young speedily proved himself to be a skilful administrator as well as a resolute chief .
maps were drawn and charts prepared , in which the future city was sketched out . all around farms were apportioned and allotted in proportion to the standing of each individual .
the tradesman was put to his trade and the artisan to his calling .
in the town streets and squares sprang up , as if by magic .
in the country there was draining and hedging , planting and clearing , until the next summer saw the whole country golden with the wheat crop .
everything prospered in the strange settlement .
above all , the great temple which they had erected in the centre of the city grew ever taller and larger .
from the first blush of dawn until the closing of the twilight , the clatter of the hammer and the rasp of the saw was never absent from the monument which the immigrants erected to him who had led them safe through many dangers .
the two castaways , john ferrier and the little girl who had shared his fortunes and had been adopted as his daughter , accompanied the mormons to the end of their great pilgrimage .
little lucy ferrier was borne along pleasantly enough in elder stangerson 's waggon , a retreat which she shared with the mormon 's three wives and with his son , a headstrong forward boy of twelve .
having rallied , with the elasticity of childhood , from the shock caused by her mother 's death , she soon became a pet with the women , and reconciled herself to this new life in her moving canvas-covered home .
in the meantime ferrier having recovered from his privations , distinguished himself as a useful guide and an indefatigable hunter .
so rapidly did he gain the esteem of his new companions , that when they reached the end of their wanderings , it was unanimously agreed that he should be provided with as large and as fertile a tract of land as any of the settlers , with the exception of young himself , and of stangerson , kemball , johnston , and drebber , who were the four principal elders .
on the farm thus acquired john ferrier built himself a substantial log-house , which received so many additions in succeeding years that it grew into a roomy villa .
he was a man of a practical turn of mind , keen in his dealings and skilful with his hands .
his iron constitution enabled him to work morning and evening at improving and tilling his lands .
hence it came about that his farm and all that belonged to him prospered exceedingly .
in three years he was better off than his neighbours , in six he was well-to-do , in nine he was rich , and in twelve there were not half a dozen men in the whole of salt lake city who could compare with him .
from the great inland sea to the distant wahsatch mountains there was no name better known than that of john ferrier .
there was one way and only one in which he offended the susceptibilities of his co-religionists . no argument or persuasion could ever induce him to set up a female establishment after the manner of his companions .
he never gave reasons for this persistent refusal , but contented himself by resolutely and inflexibly adhering to his determination .
there were some who accused him of lukewarmness in his adopted religion , and others who put it down to greed of wealth and reluctance to incur expense .
others , again , spoke of some early love affair , and of a fair-haired girl who had pined away on the shores of the atlantic .
whatever the reason , ferrier remained strictly celibate .
in every other respect he conformed to the religion of the young settlement , and gained the name of being an orthodox and straight-walking man .
lucy ferrier grew up within the log-house , and assisted her adopted father in all his undertakings .
the keen air of the mountains and the balsamic odour of the pine trees took the place of nurse and mother to the young girl .
as year succeeded to year she grew taller and stronger , her cheek more rudy , and her step more elastic .
many a wayfarer upon the high road which ran by ferrier 's farm felt long-forgotten thoughts revive in their mind as they watched her lithe girlish figure tripping through the wheatfields , or met her mounted upon her father 's mustang , and managing it with all the ease and grace of a true child of the west .
so the bud blossomed into a flower , and the year which saw her father the richest of the farmers left her as fair a specimen of american girlhood as could be found in the whole pacific slope .
it was not the father , however , who first discovered that the child had developed into the woman .
it seldom is in such cases . that mysterious change is too subtle and too gradual to be measured by dates .
least of all does the maiden herself know it until the tone of a voice or the touch of a hand sets her heart thrilling within her , and she learns , with a mixture of pride and of fear , that a new and a larger nature has awoken within her .
there are few who cannot recall that day and remember the one little incident which heralded the dawn of a new life .
in the case of lucy ferrier the occasion was serious enough in itself , apart from its future influence on her destiny and that of many besides .
it was a warm june morning , and the latter day saints were as busy as the bees whose hive they have chosen for their emblem .
in the fields and in the streets rose the same hum of human industry .
down the dusty high roads defiled long streams of heavily-laden mules , all heading to the west , for the gold fever had broken out in california , and the overland route lay through the city of the elect .
there , too , were droves of sheep and bullocks coming in from the outlying pasture lands , and trains of tired immigrants , men and horses equally weary of their interminable journey .
through all this motley assemblage , threading her way with the skill of an accomplished rider , there galloped lucy ferrier , her fair face flushed with the exercise and her long chestnut hair floating out behind her .
she had a commission from her father in the city , and was dashing in as she had done many a time before , with all the fearlessness of youth , thinking only of her task and how it was to be performed .
the travel-stained adventurers gazed after her in astonishment , and even the unemotional indians , journeying in with their pelties , relaxed their accustomed stoicism as they marvelled at the beauty of the pale-faced maiden .
she had reached the outskirts of the city when she found the road blocked by a great drove of cattle , driven by a half-dozen wild-looking herdsmen from the plains .
in her impatience she endeavoured to pass this obstacle by pushing her horse into what appeared to be a gap .
scarcely had she got fairly into it , however , before the beasts closed in behind her , and she found herself completely imbedded in the moving stream of fierce-eyed , long-horned bullocks .
accustomed as she was to deal with cattle , she was not alarmed at her situation , but took advantage of every opportunity to urge her horse on in the hopes of pushing her way through the cavalcade . unfortunately the horns of one of the creatures , either by accident or design , came in violent contact with the flank of the mustang , and excited it to madness .
in an instant it reared up upon its hind legs with a snort of rage , and pranced and tossed in a way that would have unseated any but a most skilful rider .
the situation was full of peril .
every plunge of the excited horse brought it against the horns again , and goaded it to fresh madness . it was all that the girl could do to keep herself in the saddle , yet a slip would mean a terrible death under the hoofs of the unwieldy and terrified animals .
unaccustomed to sudden emergencies , her head began to swim , and her grip upon the bridle to relax .
choked by the rising cloud of dust and by the steam from the struggling creatures , she might have abandoned her efforts in despair , but for a kindly voice at her elbow which assured her of assistance .
at the same moment a sinewy brown hand caught the frightened horse by the curb , and forcing a way through the drove , soon brought her to the outskirts .
" you 're not hurt , i hope , miss , " said her preserver , respectfully .
she looked up at his dark , fierce face , and laughed saucily . " i 'm awful frightened , " she said , naively ; " whoever would have thought that poncho would have been so scared by a lot of cows ? "
" thank god you kept your seat , " the other said earnestly .
he was a tall , savage-looking young fellow , mounted on a powerful roan horse , and clad in the rough dress of a hunter , with a long rifle slung over his shoulders .
" i guess you are the daughter of john ferrier , " he remarked , " i saw you ride down from his house .
when you see him , ask him if he remembers the jefferson hopes of st. louis .
if he 's the same ferrier , my father and he were pretty thick . "
" hadn 't you better come and ask yourself ? " she asked , demurely .
the young fellow seemed pleased at the suggestion , and his dark eyes sparkled with pleasure .
" i 'll do so , " he said , " we 've been in the mountains for two months , and are not over and above in visiting condition .
he must take us as he finds us . "
" he has a good deal to thank you for , and so have i , " she answered , " he 's awful fond of me .
if those cows had jumped on me he 'd have never got over it . "
" neither would i , " said her companion .
well , i don 't see that it would make much matter to you , anyhow . you ain 't even a friend of ours . "
the young hunter 's dark face grew so gloomy over this remark that lucy ferrier laughed aloud .
" there , i didn 't mean that , " she said ; " of course , you are a friend now . you must come and see us .
now i must push along , or father won 't trust me with his business any more . good-bye ! "
" good-bye , " he answered , raising his broad sombrero , and bending over her little hand .
she wheeled her mustang round , gave it a cut with her riding-whip , and darted away down the broad road in a rolling cloud of dust .
young jefferson hope rode on with his companions , gloomy and taciturn .
he and they had been among the nevada mountains prospecting for silver , and were returning to salt lake city in the hope of raising capital enough to work some lodes which they had discovered . he had been as keen as any of them upon the business until this sudden incident had drawn his thoughts into another channel .
the sight of the fair young girl , as frank and wholesome as the sierra breezes , had stirred his volcanic , untamed heart to its very depths .
when she had vanished from his sight , he realized that a crisis had come in his life , and that neither silver speculations nor any other questions could ever be of such importance to him as this new and all-absorbing one .
the love which had sprung up in his heart was not the sudden , changeable fancy of a boy , but rather the wild , fierce passion of a man of strong will and imperious temper .
he had been accustomed to succeed in all that he undertook .
he swore in his heart that he would not fail in this if human effort and human perseverance could render him successful .
he called on john ferrier that night , and many times again , until his face was a familiar one at the farm-house .
john , cooped up in the valley , and absorbed in his work , had had little chance of learning the news of the outside world during the last twelve years .
all this jefferson hope was able to tell him , and in a style which interested lucy as well as her father .
he had been a pioneer in california , and could narrate many a strange tale of fortunes made and fortunes lost in those wild , halcyon days .
he had been a scout too , and a trapper , a silver explorer , and a ranchman . wherever stirring adventures were to be had , jefferson hope had been there in search of them .
he soon became a favourite with the old farmer , who spoke eloquently of his virtues .
on such occasions , lucy was silent , but her blushing cheek and her bright , happy eyes , showed only too clearly that her young heart was no longer her own .
her honest father may not have observed these symptoms , but they were assuredly not thrown away upon the man who had won her affections .
it was a summer evening when he came galloping down the road and pulled up at the gate . she was at the doorway , and came down to meet him .
" i am off , lucy , " he said , taking her two hands in his , and gazing tenderly down into her face ; " i won 't ask you to come with me now , but will you be ready to come when i am here again ? "
" and when will that be ? " she asked , blushing and laughing .
" a couple of months at the outside . i will come and claim you then , my darling .
there 's no one who can stand between us . "
" and how about father ? " she asked .
" he has given his consent , provided we get these mines working all right .
i have no fear on that head . "
" oh , well ; of course , if you and father have arranged it all , there 's no more to be said , " she whispered , with her cheek against his broad breast .
" thank god ! " he said , hoarsely , stooping and kissing her . " it is settled , then .
the longer i stay , the harder it will be to go . they are waiting for me at the canon .
he tore himself from her as he spoke , and , flinging himself upon his horse , galloped furiously away , never even looking round , as though afraid that his resolution might fail him if he took one glance at what he was leaving .
she stood at the gate , gazing after him until he vanished from her sight .
then she walked back into the house , the happiest girl in all utah .
chapter iii . john ferrier talks with the prophet .
three weeks had passed since jefferson hope and his comrades had departed from salt lake city .
john ferrier 's heart was sore within him when he thought of the young man 's return , and of the impending loss of his adopted child .
yet her bright and happy face reconciled him to the arrangement more than any argument could have done .
he had always determined , deep down in his resolute heart , that nothing would ever induce him to allow his daughter to wed a mormon .
such a marriage he regarded as no marriage at all , but as a shame and a disgrace . whatever he might think of the mormon doctrines , upon that one point he was inflexible .
he had to seal his mouth on the subject , however , for to express an unorthodox opinion was a dangerous matter in those days in the land of the saints .
yes , a dangerous matter - so dangerous that even the most saintly dared only whisper their religious opinions with bated breath , lest something which fell from their lips might be misconstrued , and bring down a swift retribution upon them .
the victims of persecution had now turned persecutors on their own account , and persecutors of the most terrible description .
not the inquisition of seville , nor the german vehm-gericht , nor the secret societies of italy , were ever able to put a more formidable machinery in motion than that which cast a cloud over the state of utah .
its invisibility , and the mystery which was attached to it , made this organization doubly terrible .
it appeared to be omniscient and omnipotent , and yet was neither seen nor heard .
the man who held out against the church vanished away , and none knew whither he had gone or what had befallen him .
his wife and his children awaited him at home , but no father ever returned to tell them how he had fared at the hands of his secret judges .
a rash word or a hasty act was followed by annihilation , and yet none knew what the nature might be of this terrible power which was suspended over them .
no wonder that men went about in fear and trembling , and that even in the heart of the wilderness they dared not whisper the doubts which oppressed them .
at first this vague and terrible power was exercised only upon the recalcitrants who , having embraced the mormon faith , wished afterwards to pervert or to abandon it .
soon , however , it took a wider range .
the supply of adult women was running short , and polygamy without a female population on which to draw was a barren doctrine indeed .
strange rumours began to be bandied about - rumours of murdered immigrants and rifled camps in regions where indians had never been seen .
fresh women appeared in the harems of the elders - women who pined and wept , and bore upon their faces the traces of an unextinguishable horror .
belated wanderers upon the mountains spoke of gangs of armed men , masked , stealthy , and noiseless , who flitted by them in the darkness .
these tales and rumours took substance and shape , and were corroborated and re-corroborated , until they resolved themselves into a definite name .
to this day , in the lonely ranches of the west , the name of the danite band , or the avenging angels , is a sinister and an ill-omened one .
fuller knowledge of the organization which produced such terrible results served to increase rather than to lessen the horror which it inspired in the minds of men .
none knew who belonged to this ruthless society . the names of the participators in the deeds of blood and violence done under the name of religion were kept profoundly secret .
the very friend to whom you communicated your misgivings as to the prophet and his mission , might be one of those who would come forth at night with fire and sword to exact a terrible reparation .
hence every man feared his neighbour , and none spoke of the things which were nearest his heart .
one fine morning , john ferrier was about to set out to his wheatfields , when he heard the click of the latch , and , looking through the window , saw a stout , sandy-haired , middle-aged man coming up the pathway .
his heart leapt to his mouth , for this was none other than the great brigham young himself .
full of trepidation - for he knew that such a visit boded him little good - ferrier ran to the door to greet the mormon chief . the latter , however , received his salutations coldly , and followed him with a stern face into the sitting-room .
" brother ferrier , " he said , taking a seat , and eyeing the farmer keenly from under his light-coloured eyelashes , " the true believers have been good friends to you .
we picked you up when you were starving in the desert , we shared our food with you , led you safe to the chosen valley , gave you a goodly share of land , and allowed you to wax rich under our protection .
is not this so ? "
" it is so , " answered john ferrier .
" in return for all this we asked but one condition : that was , that you should embrace the true faith , and conform in every way to its usages .
this you promised to do , and this , if common report says truly , you have neglected . "
" and how have i neglected it ? " asked ferrier , throwing out his hands in expostulation .
" have i not given to the common fund ?
have i not attended at the temple ?
have i not - - ? "
" where are your wives ? " asked young , looking round him .
" call them in , that i may greet them . "
" it is true that i have not married , " ferrier answered . " but women were few , and there were many who had better claims than i. i was not a lonely man : i had my daughter to attend to my wants . "
" it is of that daughter that i would speak to you , " said the leader of the mormons .
" she has grown to be the flower of utah , and has found favour in the eyes of many who are high in the land . "
john ferrier groaned internally .
" there are stories of her which i would fain disbelieve - stories that she is sealed to some gentile .
this must be the gossip of idle tongues .
what is the thirteenth rule in the code of the sainted joseph smith ?
'let every maiden of the true faith marry one of the elect ; for if she wed a gentile , she commits a grievous sin . '
this being so , it is impossible that you , who profess the holy creed , should suffer your daughter to violate it . "
john ferrier made no answer , but he played nervously with his riding-whip .
" upon this one point your whole faith shall be tested - so it has been decided in the sacred council of four .
the girl is young , and we would not have her wed grey hairs , neither would we deprive her of all choice . we elders have many heifers , but our children must also be provided .
stangerson has a son , and drebber has a son , and either of them would gladly welcome your daughter to their house .
let her choose between them .
they are young and rich , and of the true faith .
what say you to that ? "
ferrier remained silent for some little time with his brows knitted .
" you will give us time , " he said at last .
" my daughter is very young - she is scarce of an age to marry . "
" she shall have a month to choose , " said young , rising from his seat .
" at the end of that time she shall give her answer . "
he was passing through the door , when he turned , with flushed face and flashing eyes . " it were better for you , john ferrier , " he thundered , " that you and she were now lying blanched skeletons upon the sierra blanco , than that you should put your weak wills against the orders of the holy four ! "
with a threatening gesture of his hand , he turned from the door , and ferrier heard his heavy step scrunching along the shingly path .
he was still sitting with his elbows upon his knees , considering how he should broach the matter to his daughter when a soft hand was laid upon his , and looking up , he saw her standing beside him .
one glance at her pale , frightened face showed him that she had heard what had passed .
" i could not help it , " she said , in answer to his look . " his voice rang through the house .
oh , father , father , what shall we do ? "
" don 't you scare yourself , " he answered , drawing her to him , and passing his broad , rough hand caressingly over her chestnut hair . " we 'll fix it up somehow or another .
you don 't find your fancy kind o ' lessening for this chap , do you ? "
a sob and a squeeze of his hand was her only answer .
" no ; of course not . i shouldn 't care to hear you say you did .
he 's a likely lad , and he 's a christian , which is more than these folk here , in spite o ' all their praying and preaching .
there 's a party starting for nevada to-morrow , and i 'll manage to send him a message letting him know the hole we are in .
if i know anything o ' that young man , he 'll be back here with a speed that would whip electro-telegraphs . "
lucy laughed through her tears at her father 's description .
" when he comes , he will advise us for the best .
but it is for you that i am frightened , dear .
one hears - one hears such dreadful stories about those who oppose the prophet : something terrible always happens to them . "
" but we haven 't opposed him yet , " her father answered .
" it will be time to look out for squalls when we do . we have a clear month before us ; at the end of that , i guess we had best shin out of utah . "
" leave utah ! "
" that 's about the size of it . "
" but the farm ? "
" we will raise as much as we can in money , and let the rest go .
to tell the truth , lucy , it isn 't the first time i have thought of doing it . i don 't care about knuckling under to any man , as these folk do to their darned prophet .
i 'm a free-born american , and it 's all new to me . guess i 'm too old to learn .
if he comes browsing about this farm , he might chance to run up against a charge of buckshot travelling in the opposite direction . "
" but they won 't let us leave , " his daughter objected .
" wait till jefferson comes , and we 'll soon manage that .
in the meantime , don 't you fret yourself , my dearie , and don 't get your eyes swelled up , else he 'll be walking into me when he sees you .
there 's nothing to be afeared about , and there 's no danger at all . "
john ferrier uttered these consoling remarks in a very confident tone , but she could not help observing that he paid unusual care to the fastening of the doors that night , and that he carefully cleaned and loaded the rusty old shotgun which hung upon the wall of his bedroom .
chapter iv . a flight for life .
on the morning which followed his interview with the mormon prophet , john ferrier went in to salt lake city , and having found his acquaintance , who was bound for the nevada mountains , he entrusted him with his message to jefferson hope .
in it he told the young man of the imminent danger which threatened them , and how necessary it was that he should return .
having done thus he felt easier in his mind , and returned home with a lighter heart .
as he approached his farm , he was surprised to see a horse hitched to each of the posts of the gate . still more surprised was he on entering to find two young men in possession of his sitting-room .
one , with a long pale face , was leaning back in the rocking-chair , with his feet cocked up upon the stove .
the other , a bull-necked youth with coarse bloated features , was standing in front of the window with his hands in his pocket , whistling a popular hymn .
both of them nodded to ferrier as he entered , and the one in the rocking-chair commenced the conversation .
" maybe you don 't know us , " he said .
" this here is the son of elder drebber , and i 'm joseph stangerson , who travelled with you in the desert when the lord stretched out his hand and gathered you into the true fold . "
" as he will all the nations in his own good time , " said the other in a nasal voice ; " he grindeth slowly but exceeding small . "
john ferrier bowed coldly .
he had guessed who his visitors were .
" we have come , " continued stangerson , " at the advice of our fathers to solicit the hand of your daughter for whichever of us may seem good to you and to her . as i have but four wives and brother drebber here has seven , it appears to me that my claim is the stronger one . "
" nay , nay , brother stangerson , " cried the other ; " the question is not how many wives we have , but how many we can keep .
my father has now given over his mills to me , and i am the richer man . "
" but my prospects are better , " said the other , warmly .
" when the lord removes my father , i shall have his tanning yard and his leather factory .
then i am your elder , and am higher in the church . "
" it will be for the maiden to decide , " rejoined young drebber , smirking at his own reflection in the glass .
" we will leave it all to her decision . "
during this dialogue , john ferrier had stood fuming in the doorway , hardly able to keep his riding-whip from the backs of his two visitors .
" look here , " he said at last , striding up to them , " when my daughter summons you , you can come , but until then i don 't want to see your faces again . "
the two young mormons stared at him in amazement .
in their eyes this competition between them for the maiden 's hand was the highest of honours both to her and her father .
" there are two ways out of the room , " cried ferrier ; " there is the door , and there is the window .
which do you care to use ? "
his brown face looked so savage , and his gaunt hands so threatening , that his visitors sprang to their feet and beat a hurried retreat .
the old farmer followed them to the door .
" let me know when you have settled which it is to be , " he said , sardonically .
" you shall smart for this ! " stangerson cried , white with rage .
" you have defied the prophet and the council of four .
you shall rue it to the end of your days . "
" the hand of the lord shall be heavy upon you , " cried young drebber ; " he will arise and smite you ! "
" then i 'll start the smiting , " exclaimed ferrier furiously , and would have rushed upstairs for his gun had not lucy seized him by the arm and restrained him .
before he could escape from her , the clatter of horses ' hoofs told him that they were beyond his reach .
" the young canting rascals ! " he exclaimed , wiping the perspiration from his forehead ; " i would sooner see you in your grave , my girl , than the wife of either of them . "
" and so should i , father , " she answered , with spirit ; " but jefferson will soon be here . "
it will not be long before he comes . the sooner the better , for we do not know what their next move may be . "
it was , indeed , high time that someone capable of giving advice and help should come to the aid of the sturdy old farmer and his adopted daughter .
in the whole history of the settlement there had never been such a case of rank disobedience to the authority of the elders .
if minor errors were punished so sternly , what would be the fate of this arch rebel .
ferrier knew that his wealth and position would be of no avail to him .
others as well known and as rich as himself had been spirited away before now , and their goods given over to the church .
he was a brave man , but he trembled at the vague , shadowy terrors which hung over him .
any known danger he could face with a firm lip , but this suspense was unnerving .
he concealed his fears from his daughter , however , and affected to make light of the whole matter , though she , with the keen eye of love , saw plainly that he was ill at ease .
he expected that he would receive some message or remonstrance from young as to his conduct , and he was not mistaken , though it came in an unlooked-for manner .
upon rising next morning he found , to his surprise , a small square of paper pinned on to the coverlet of his bed just over his chest .
on it was printed , in bold straggling letters : -
" twenty-nine days are given you for amendment , and then - - "
the dash was more fear-inspiring than any threat could have been .
how this warning came into his room puzzled john ferrier sorely , for his servants slept in an outhouse , and the doors and windows had all been secured .
he crumpled the paper up and said nothing to his daughter , but the incident struck a chill into his heart .
the twenty-nine days were evidently the balance of the month which young had promised .
what strength or courage could avail against an enemy armed with such mysterious powers ?
the hand which fastened that pin might have struck him to the heart , and he could never have known who had slain him .
still more shaken was he next morning .
they had sat down to their breakfast when lucy with a cry of surprise pointed upwards . in the centre of the ceiling was scrawled , with a burned stick apparently , the number 28 .
to his daughter it was unintelligible , and he did not enlighten her .
that night he sat up with his gun and kept watch and ward .
he saw and he heard nothing , and yet in the morning a great 27 had been painted upon the outside of his door .
thus day followed day ; and as sure as morning came he found that his unseen enemies had kept their register , and had marked up in some conspicuous position how many days were still left to him out of the month of grace .
sometimes the fatal numbers appeared upon the walls , sometimes upon the floors , occasionally they were on small placards stuck upon the garden gate or the railings .
with all his vigilance john ferrier could not discover whence these daily warnings proceeded .
a horror which was almost superstitious came upon him at the sight of them .
he became haggard and restless , and his eyes had the troubled look of some hunted creature .
he had but one hope in life now , and that was for the arrival of the young hunter from nevada .
twenty had changed to fifteen and fifteen to ten , but there was no news of the absentee . one by one the numbers dwindled down , and still there came no sign of him .
whenever a horseman clattered down the road , or a driver shouted at his team , the old farmer hurried to the gate thinking that help had arrived at last .
at last , when he saw five give way to four and that again to three , he lost heart , and abandoned all hope of escape .
single-handed , and with his limited knowledge of the mountains which surrounded the settlement , he knew that he was powerless .
the more-frequented roads were strictly watched and guarded , and none could pass along them without an order from the council .
turn which way he would , there appeared to be no avoiding the blow which hung over him .
yet the old man never wavered in his resolution to part with life itself before he consented to what he regarded as his daughter 's dishonour .
he was sitting alone one evening pondering deeply over his troubles , and searching vainly for some way out of them .
that morning had shown the figure 2 upon the wall of his house , and the next day would be the last of the allotted time .
what was to happen then ?
all manner of vague and terrible fancies filled his imagination .
and his daughter - what was to become of her after he was gone ?
was there no escape from the invisible network which was drawn all round them .
he sank his head upon the table and sobbed at the thought of his own impotence .
what was that ?
in the silence he heard a gentle scratching sound - low , but very distinct in the quiet of the night . it came from the door of the house .
ferrier crept into the hall and listened intently .
there was a pause for a few moments , and then the low insidious sound was repeated .
someone was evidently tapping very gently upon one of the panels of the door .
was it some midnight assassin who had come to carry out the murderous orders of the secret tribunal ? or was it some agent who was marking up that the last day of grace had arrived .
john ferrier felt that instant death would be better than the suspense which shook his nerves and chilled his heart . springing forward he drew the bolt and threw the door open .
outside all was calm and quiet .
the night was fine , and the stars were twinkling brightly overhead .
the little front garden lay before the farmer 's eyes bounded by the fence and gate , but neither there nor on the road was any human being to be seen .
with a sigh of relief , ferrier looked to right and to left , until happening to glance straight down at his own feet he saw to his astonishment a man lying flat upon his face upon the ground , with arms and legs all asprawl .
so unnerved was he at the sight that he leaned up against the wall with his hand to his throat to stifle his inclination to call out .
his first thought was that the prostrate figure was that of some wounded or dying man , but as he watched it he saw it writhe along the ground and into the hall with the rapidity and noiselessness of a serpent . once within the house the man sprang to his feet , closed the door , and revealed to the astonished farmer the fierce face and resolute expression of jefferson hope .
" good god ! " gasped john ferrier . " how you scared me !
whatever made you come in like that . "
" give me food , " the other said , hoarsely .
" i have had no time for bite or sup for eight-and-forty hours . "
he flung himself upon the cold meat and bread which were still lying upon the table from his host 's supper , and devoured it voraciously .
" does lucy bear up well ? " he asked , when he had satisfied his hunger .
" yes . she does not know the danger , " her father answered .
" that is well .
the house is watched on every side . that is why i crawled my way up to it .
they may be darned sharp , but they 're not quite sharp enough to catch a washoe hunter . "
john ferrier felt a different man now that he realized that he had a devoted ally .
he seized the young man 's leathery hand and wrung it cordially .
" you 're a man to be proud of , " he said .
" there are not many who would come to share our danger and our troubles . "
" you 've hit it there , pard , " the young hunter answered .
" i have a respect for you , but if you were alone in this business i 'd think twice before i put my head into such a hornet 's nest .
it 's lucy that brings me here , and before harm comes on her i guess there will be one less o ' the hope family in utah . "
" what are we to do ? "
" to-morrow is your last day , and unless you act to-night you are lost .
i have a mule and two horses waiting in the eagle ravine .
how much money have you ? "
" two thousand dollars in gold , and five in notes . "
" that will do .
i have as much more to add to it .
we must push for carson city through the mountains . you had best wake lucy .
it is as well that the servants do not sleep in the house . "
while ferrier was absent , preparing his daughter for the approaching journey , jefferson hope packed all the eatables that he could find into a small parcel , and filled a stoneware jar with water , for he knew by experience that the mountain wells were few and far between .
he had hardly completed his arrangements before the farmer returned with his daughter all dressed and ready for a start .
the greeting between the lovers was warm , but brief , for minutes were precious , and there was much to be done .
" we must make our start at once , " said jefferson hope , speaking in a low but resolute voice , like one who realizes the greatness of the peril , but has steeled his heart to meet it .
" the front and back entrances are watched , but with caution we may get away through the side window and across the fields .
once on the road we are only two miles from the ravine where the horses are waiting . by daybreak we should be half-way through the mountains . "
" what if we are stopped , " asked ferrier . hope slapped the revolver butt which protruded from the front of his tunic .
" if they are too many for us we shall take two or three of them with us , " he said with a sinister smile .
the lights inside the house had all been extinguished , and from the darkened window ferrier peered over the fields which had been his own , and which he was now about to abandon for ever .
he had long nerved himself to the sacrifice , however , and the thought of the honour and happiness of his daughter outweighed any regret at his ruined fortunes .
all looked so peaceful and happy , the rustling trees and the broad silent stretch of grain-land , that it was difficult to realize that the spirit of murder lurked through it all .
yet the white face and set expression of the young hunter showed that in his approach to the house he had seen enough to satisfy him upon that head .
ferrier carried the bag of gold and notes , jefferson hope had the scanty provisions and water , while lucy had a small bundle containing a few of her more valued possessions .
opening the window very slowly and carefully , they waited until a dark cloud had somewhat obscured the night , and then one by one passed through into the little garden . with bated breath and crouching figures they stumbled across it , and gained the shelter of the hedge , which they skirted until they came to the gap which opened into the cornfields .
they had just reached this point when the young man seized his two companions and dragged them down into the shadow , where they lay silent and trembling .
it was as well that his prairie training had given jefferson hope the ears of a lynx . he and his friends had hardly crouched down before the melancholy hooting of a mountain owl was heard within a few yards of them , which was immediately answered by another hoot at a small distance .
at the same moment a vague shadowy figure emerged from the gap for which they had been making , and uttered the plaintive signal cry again , on which a second man appeared out of the obscurity .
" to-morrow at midnight , " said the first who appeared to be in authority . " when the whip-poor-will calls three times . "
" it is well , " returned the other .
" shall i tell brother drebber ? "
" pass it on to him , and from him to the others . nine to seven ! "
" seven to five ! " repeated the other , and the two figures flitted away in different directions .
their concluding words had evidently been some form of sign and countersign .
the instant that their footsteps had died away in the distance , jefferson hope sprang to his feet , and helping his companions through the gap , led the way across the fields at the top of his speed , supporting and half-carrying the girl when her strength appeared to fail her .
" hurry on ! hurry on ! " he gasped from time to time .
" we are through the line of sentinels . everything depends on speed .
hurry on ! "
once on the high road they made rapid progress . only once did they meet anyone , and then they managed to slip into a field , and so avoid recognition .
before reaching the town the hunter branched away into a rugged and narrow footpath which led to the mountains .
two dark jagged peaks loomed above them through the darkness , and the defile which led between them was the eagle canon in which the horses were awaiting them .
with unerring instinct jefferson hope picked his way among the great boulders and along the bed of a dried-up watercourse , until he came to the retired corner , screened with rocks , where the faithful animals had been picketed .
the girl was placed upon the mule , and old ferrier upon one of the horses , with his money-bag , while jefferson hope led the other along the precipitous and dangerous path .
it was a bewildering route for anyone who was not accustomed to face nature in her wildest moods .
on the one side a great crag towered up a thousand feet or more , black , stern , and menacing , with long basaltic columns upon its rugged surface like the ribs of some petrified monster . on the other hand a wild chaos of boulders and debris made all advance impossible .
between the two ran the irregular track , so narrow in places that they had to travel in indian file , and so rough that only practised riders could have traversed it at all .
yet in spite of all dangers and difficulties , the hearts of the fugitives were light within them , for every step increased the distance between them and the terrible despotism from which they were flying .
they soon had a proof , however , that they were still within the jurisdiction of the saints .
they had reached the very wildest and most desolate portion of the pass when the girl gave a startled cry , and pointed upwards .
on a rock which overlooked the track , showing out dark and plain against the sky , there stood a solitary sentinel .
he saw them as soon as they perceived him , and his military challenge of " who goes there ? " rang through the silent ravine .
" travellers for nevada , " said jefferson hope , with his hand upon the rifle which hung by his saddle .
they could see the lonely watcher fingering his gun , and peering down at them as if dissatisfied at their reply .
" by whose permission ? " he asked .
" the holy four , " answered ferrier .
his mormon experiences had taught him that that was the highest authority to which he could refer .
" nine from seven , " cried the sentinel .
" seven from five , " returned jefferson hope promptly , remembering the countersign which he had heard in the garden .
" pass , and the lord go with you , " said the voice from above .
beyond his post the path broadened out , and the horses were able to break into a trot . looking back , they could see the solitary watcher leaning upon his gun , and knew that they had passed the outlying post of the chosen people , and that freedom lay before them .
chapter v. the avenging angels .
all night their course lay through intricate defiles and over irregular and rock-strewn paths . more than once they lost their way , but hope 's intimate knowledge of the mountains enabled them to regain the track once more .
when morning broke , a scene of marvellous though savage beauty lay before them .
in every direction the great snow-capped peaks hemmed them in , peeping over each other 's shoulders to the far horizon .
so steep were the rocky banks on either side of them , that the larch and the pine seemed to be suspended over their heads , and to need only a gust of wind to come hurtling down upon them .
nor was the fear entirely an illusion , for the barren valley was thickly strewn with trees and boulders which had fallen in a similar manner .
even as they passed , a great rock came thundering down with a hoarse rattle which woke the echoes in the silent gorges , and startled the weary horses into a gallop .
as the sun rose slowly above the eastern horizon , the caps of the great mountains lit up one after the other , like lamps at a festival , until they were all ruddy and glowing .
the magnificent spectacle cheered the hearts of the three fugitives and gave them fresh energy .
at a wild torrent which swept out of a ravine they called a halt and watered their horses , while they partook of a hasty breakfast .
lucy and her father would fain have rested longer , but jefferson hope was inexorable .
" they will be upon our track by this time , " he said . " everything depends upon our speed .
once safe in carson we may rest for the remainder of our lives . "
during the whole of that day they struggled on through the defiles , and by evening they calculated that they were more than thirty miles from their enemies .
at night-time they chose the base of a beetling crag , where the rocks offered some protection from the chill wind , and there huddled together for warmth , they enjoyed a few hours ' sleep .
before daybreak , however , they were up and on their way once more .
they had seen no signs of any pursuers , and jefferson hope began to think that they were fairly out of the reach of the terrible organization whose enmity they had incurred .
he little knew how far that iron grasp could reach , or how soon it was to close upon them and crush them .
about the middle of the second day of their flight their scanty store of provisions began to run out . this gave the hunter little uneasiness , however , for there was game to be had among the mountains , and he had frequently before had to depend upon his rifle for the needs of life .
choosing a sheltered nook , he piled together a few dried branches and made a blazing fire , at which his companions might warm themselves , for they were now nearly five thousand feet above the sea level , and the air was bitter and keen .
having tethered the horses , and bade lucy adieu , he threw his gun over his shoulder , and set out in search of whatever chance might throw in his way .
looking back he saw the old man and the young girl crouching over the blazing fire , while the three animals stood motionless in the back-ground .
then the intervening rocks hid them from his view .
he walked for a couple of miles through one ravine after another without success , though from the marks upon the bark of the trees , and other indications , he judged that there were numerous bears in the vicinity .
at last , after two or three hours ' fruitless search , he was thinking of turning back in despair , when casting his eyes upwards he saw a sight which sent a thrill of pleasure through his heart .
on the edge of a jutting pinnacle , three or four hundred feet above him , there stood a creature somewhat resembling a sheep in appearance , but armed with a pair of gigantic horns .
the big-horn - for so it is called - was acting , probably , as a guardian over a flock which were invisible to the hunter ; but fortunately it was heading in the opposite direction , and had not perceived him .
lying on his face , he rested his rifle upon a rock , and took a long and steady aim before drawing the trigger .
the animal sprang into the air , tottered for a moment upon the edge of the precipice , and then came crashing down into the valley beneath .
the creature was too unwieldy to lift , so the hunter contented himself with cutting away one haunch and part of the flank .
with this trophy over his shoulder , he hastened to retrace his steps , for the evening was already drawing in .
he had hardly started , however , before he realized the difficulty which faced him .
in his eagerness he had wandered far past the ravines which were known to him , and it was no easy matter to pick out the path which he had taken .
the valley in which he found himself divided and sub-divided into many gorges , which were so like each other that it was impossible to distinguish one from the other .
he followed one for a mile or more until he came to a mountain torrent which he was sure that he had never seen before . convinced that he had taken the wrong turn , he tried another , but with the same result .
night was coming on rapidly , and it was almost dark before he at last found himself in a defile which was familiar to him .
even then it was no easy matter to keep to the right track , for the moon had not yet risen , and the high cliffs on either side made the obscurity more profound .
weighed down with his burden , and weary from his exertions , he stumbled along , keeping up his heart by the reflection that every step brought him nearer to lucy , and that he carried with him enough to ensure them food for the remainder of their journey .
he had now come to the mouth of the very defile in which he had left them . even in the darkness he could recognize the outline of the cliffs which bounded it .
they must , he reflected , be awaiting him anxiously , for he had been absent nearly five hours . in the gladness of his heart he put his hands to his mouth and made the glen re-echo to a loud halloo as a signal that he was coming .
he paused and listened for an answer .
none came save his own cry , which clattered up the dreary silent ravines , and was borne back to his ears in countless repetitions .
again he shouted , even louder than before , and again no whisper came back from the friends whom he had left such a short time ago .
a vague , nameless dread came over him , and he hurried onwards frantically , dropping the precious food in his agitation .
when he turned the corner , he came full in sight of the spot where the fire had been lit .
there was still a glowing pile of wood ashes there , but it had evidently not been tended since his departure .
the same dead silence still reigned all round .
with his fears all changed to convictions , he hurried on . there was no living creature near the remains of the fire : animals , man , maiden , all were gone .
it was only too clear that some sudden and terrible disaster had occurred during his absence - a disaster which had embraced them all , and yet had left no traces behind it .
bewildered and stunned by this blow , jefferson hope felt his head spin round , and had to lean upon his rifle to save himself from falling . he was essentially a man of action , however , and speedily recovered from his temporary impotence .
seizing a half-consumed piece of wood from the smouldering fire , he blew it into a flame , and proceeded with its help to examine the little camp .
the ground was all stamped down by the feet of horses , showing that a large party of mounted men had overtaken the fugitives , and the direction of their tracks proved that they had afterwards turned back to salt lake city .
had they carried back both of his companions with them ?
jefferson hope had almost persuaded himself that they must have done so , when his eye fell upon an object which made every nerve of his body tingle within him . a little way on one side of the camp was a low-lying heap of reddish soil , which had assuredly not been there before .
there was no mistaking it for anything but a newly-dug grave .
as the young hunter approached it , he perceived that a stick had been planted on it , with a sheet of paper stuck in the cleft fork of it . the inscription upon the paper was brief , but to the point :
john ferrier ,
formerly of salt lake city ,
died august 4th , 1860 .
the sturdy old man , whom he had left so short a time before , was gone , then , and this was all his epitaph .
jefferson hope looked wildly round to see if there was a second grave , but there was no sign of one .
lucy had been carried back by their terrible pursuers to fulfil her original destiny , by becoming one of the harem of the elder 's son .
as the young fellow realized the certainty of her fate , and his own powerlessness to prevent it , he wished that he , too , was lying with the old farmer in his last silent resting-place .
again , however , his active spirit shook off the lethargy which springs from despair .
if there was nothing else left to him , he could at least devote his life to revenge .
with indomitable patience and perseverance , jefferson hope possessed also a power of sustained vindictiveness , which he may have learned from the indians amongst whom he had lived .
as he stood by the desolate fire , he felt that the only one thing which could assuage his grief would be thorough and complete retribution , brought by his own hand upon his enemies .
his strong will and untiring energy should , he determined , be devoted to that one end .
with a grim , white face , he retraced his steps to where he had dropped the food , and having stirred up the smouldering fire , he cooked enough to last him for a few days .
this he made up into a bundle , and , tired as he was , he set himself to walk back through the mountains upon the track of the avenging angels .
for five days he toiled footsore and weary through the defiles which he had already traversed on horseback .
at night he flung himself down among the rocks , and snatched a few hours of sleep ; but before daybreak he was always well on his way .
on the sixth day , he reached the eagle canon , from which they had commenced their ill-fated flight . thence he could look down upon the home of the saints .
worn and exhausted , he leaned upon his rifle and shook his gaunt hand fiercely at the silent widespread city beneath him .
as he looked at it , he observed that there were flags in some of the principal streets , and other signs of festivity .
he was still speculating as to what this might mean when he heard the clatter of horse 's hoofs , and saw a mounted man riding towards him .
as he approached , he recognized him as a mormon named cowper , to whom he had rendered services at different times . he therefore accosted him when he got up to him , with the object of finding out what lucy ferrier 's fate had been .
" i am jefferson hope , " he said .
" you remember me . "
the mormon looked at him with undisguised astonishment - indeed , it was difficult to recognize in this tattered , unkempt wanderer , with ghastly white face and fierce , wild eyes , the spruce young hunter of former days .
having , however , at last , satisfied himself as to his identity , the man 's surprise changed to consternation .
" you are mad to come here , " he cried .
" it is as much as my own life is worth to be seen talking with you . there is a warrant against you from the holy four for assisting the ferriers away . "
" i don 't fear them , or their warrant , " hope said , earnestly .
" you must know something of this matter , cowper . i conjure you by everything you hold dear to answer a few questions .
we have always been friends .
for god 's sake , don 't refuse to answer me . "
" what is it ? " the mormon asked uneasily .
" be quick . the very rocks have ears and the trees eyes . "
" what has become of lucy ferrier ? "
" she was married yesterday to young drebber .
hold up , man , hold up , you have no life left in you . "
" don 't mind me , " said hope faintly .
he was white to the very lips , and had sunk down on the stone against which he had been leaning .
" married , you say ? "
" married yesterday - that 's what those flags are for on the endowment house .
there was some words between young drebber and young stangerson as to which was to have her .
they 'd both been in the party that followed them , and stangerson had shot her father , which seemed to give him the best claim ; but when they argued it out in council , drebber 's party was the stronger , so the prophet gave her over to him .
no one won 't have her very long though , for i saw death in her face yesterday .
she is more like a ghost than a woman . are you off , then ? "
" yes , i am off , " said jefferson hope , who had risen from his seat .
his face might have been chiselled out of marble , so hard and set was its expression , while its eyes glowed with a baleful light .
" where are you going ? "
" never mind , " he answered ; and , slinging his weapon over his shoulder , strode off down the gorge and so away into the heart of the mountains to the haunts of the wild beasts . amongst them all there was none so fierce and so dangerous as himself .
the prediction of the mormon was only too well fulfilled .
whether it was the terrible death of her father or the effects of the hateful marriage into which she had been forced , poor lucy never held up her head again , but pined away and died within a month .
her sottish husband , who had married her principally for the sake of john ferrier 's property , did not affect any great grief at his bereavement ; but his other wives mourned over her , and sat up with her the night before the burial , as is the mormon custom .
they were grouped round the bier in the early hours of the morning , when , to their inexpressible fear and astonishment , the door was flung open , and a savage-looking , weather-beaten man in tattered garments strode into the room .
without a glance or a word to the cowering women , he walked up to the white silent figure which had once contained the pure soul of lucy ferrier .
stooping over her , he pressed his lips reverently to her cold forehead , and then , snatching up her hand , he took the wedding-ring from her finger .
" she shall not be buried in that , " he cried with a fierce snarl , and before an alarm could be raised sprang down the stairs and was gone .
so strange and so brief was the episode , that the watchers might have found it hard to believe it themselves or persuade other people of it , had it not been for the undeniable fact that the circlet of gold which marked her as having been a bride had disappeared .
for some months jefferson hope lingered among the mountains , leading a strange wild life , and nursing in his heart the fierce desire for vengeance which possessed him .
tales were told in the city of the weird figure which was seen prowling about the suburbs , and which haunted the lonely mountain gorges .
once a bullet whistled through stangerson 's window and flattened itself upon the wall within a foot of him .
on another occasion , as drebber passed under a cliff a great boulder crashed down on him , and he only escaped a terrible death by throwing himself upon his face .
the two young mormons were not long in discovering the reason of these attempts upon their lives , and led repeated expeditions into the mountains in the hope of capturing or killing their enemy , but always without success .
then they adopted the precaution of never going out alone or after nightfall , and of having their houses guarded .
after a time they were able to relax these measures , for nothing was either heard or seen of their opponent , and they hoped that time had cooled his vindictiveness .
far from doing so , it had , if anything , augmented it . the hunter 's mind was of a hard , unyielding nature , and the predominant idea of revenge had taken such complete possession of it that there was no room for any other emotion .
he was , however , above all things practical .
he soon realized that even his iron constitution could not stand the incessant strain which he was putting upon it .
exposure and want of wholesome food were wearing him out .
if he died like a dog among the mountains , what was to become of his revenge then ?
and yet such a death was sure to overtake him if he persisted .
he felt that that was to play his enemy 's game , so he reluctantly returned to the old nevada mines , there to recruit his health and to amass money enough to allow him to pursue his object without privation .
his intention had been to be absent a year at the most , but a combination of unforeseen circumstances prevented his leaving the mines for nearly five .
at the end of that time , however , his memory of his wrongs and his craving for revenge were quite as keen as on that memorable night when he had stood by john ferrier 's grave .
disguised , and under an assumed name , he returned to salt lake city , careless what became of his own life , as long as he obtained what he knew to be justice .
there he found evil tidings awaiting him .
there had been a schism among the chosen people a few months before , some of the younger members of the church having rebelled against the authority of the elders , and the result had been the secession of a certain number of the malcontents , who had left utah and become gentiles .
among these had been drebber and stangerson ; and no one knew whither they had gone .
rumour reported that drebber had managed to convert a large part of his property into money , and that he had departed a wealthy man , while his companion , stangerson , was comparatively poor .
there was no clue at all , however , as to their whereabouts .
many a man , however vindictive , would have abandoned all thought of revenge in the face of such a difficulty , but jefferson hope never faltered for a moment .
with the small competence he possessed , eked out by such employment as he could pick up , he travelled from town to town through the united states in quest of his enemies .
year passed into year , his black hair turned grizzled , but still he wandered on , a human bloodhound , with his mind wholly set upon the one object upon which he had devoted his life .
at last his perseverance was rewarded .
it was but a glance of a face in a window , but that one glance told him that cleveland in ohio possessed the men whom he was in pursuit of .
he returned to his miserable lodgings with his plan of vengeance all arranged .
it chanced , however , that drebber , looking from his window , had recognized the vagrant in the street , and had read murder in his eyes .
he hurried before a justice of the peace , accompanied by stangerson , who had become his private secretary , and represented to him that they were in danger of their lives from the jealousy and hatred of an old rival .
that evening jefferson hope was taken into custody , and not being able to find sureties , was detained for some weeks .
when at last he was liberated , it was only to find that drebber 's house was deserted , and that he and his secretary had departed for europe .
again the avenger had been foiled , and again his concentrated hatred urged him to continue the pursuit .
funds were wanting , however , and for some time he had to return to work , saving every dollar for his approaching journey .
at last , having collected enough to keep life in him , he departed for europe , and tracked his enemies from city to city , working his way in any menial capacity , but never overtaking the fugitives . when he reached st .
petersburg they had departed for paris ; and when he followed them there he learned that they had just set off for copenhagen .
at the danish capital he was again a few days late , for they had journeyed on to london , where he at last succeeded in running them to earth .
as to what occurred there , we cannot do better than quote the old hunter 's own account , as duly recorded in dr. watson 's journal , to which we are already under such obligations .
chapter vi . a continuation of the reminiscences of john watson , m.d .
our prisoner 's furious resistance did not apparently indicate any ferocity in his disposition towards ourselves , for on finding himself powerless , he smiled in an affable manner , and expressed his hopes that he had not hurt any of us in the scuffle .
" i guess you 're going to take me to the police-station , " he remarked to sherlock holmes . " my cab 's at the door .
if you 'll loose my legs i 'll walk down to it . i 'm not so light to lift as i used to be . "
gregson and lestrade exchanged glances as if they thought this proposition rather a bold one ; but holmes at once took the prisoner at his word , and loosened the towel which we had bound round his ancles .
he rose and stretched his legs , as though to assure himself that they were free once more .
i remember that i thought to myself , as i eyed him , that i had seldom seen a more powerfully built man ; and his dark sunburned face bore an expression of determination and energy which was as formidable as his personal strength .
" if there 's a vacant place for a chief of the police , i reckon you are the man for it , " he said , gazing with undisguised admiration at my fellow-lodger .
" the way you kept on my trail was a caution . "
" you had better come with me , " said holmes to the two detectives .
" i can drive you , " said lestrade .
" good ! and gregson can come inside with me . you too , doctor , you have taken an interest in the case and may as well stick to us . "
i assented gladly , and we all descended together .
our prisoner made no attempt at escape , but stepped calmly into the cab which had been his , and we followed him .
lestrade mounted the box , whipped up the horse , and brought us in a very short time to our destination .
we were ushered into a small chamber where a police inspector noted down our prisoner 's name and the names of the men with whose murder he had been charged .
the official was a white-faced unemotional man , who went through his duties in a dull mechanical way .
" the prisoner will be put before the magistrates in the course of the week , " he said ; " in the mean time , mr. jefferson hope , have you anything that you wish to say ?
i must warn you that your words will be taken down , and may be used against you . "
" i 've got a good deal to say , " our prisoner said slowly .
" i want to tell you gentlemen all about it . "
" hadn 't you better reserve that for your trial ? " asked the inspector .
" i may never be tried , " he answered .
" you needn 't look startled .
it isn 't suicide i am thinking of .
are you a doctor ? " he turned his fierce dark eyes upon me as he asked this last question .
" yes ; i am , " i answered .
" then put your hand here , " he said , with a smile , motioning with his manacled wrists towards his chest .
i did so ; and became at once conscious of an extraordinary throbbing and commotion which was going on inside .
the walls of his chest seemed to thrill and quiver as a frail building would do inside when some powerful engine was at work .
in the silence of the room i could hear a dull humming and buzzing noise which proceeded from the same source .
" why , " i cried , " you have an aortic aneurism ! "
" that 's what they call it , " he said , placidly .
" i went to a doctor last week about it , and he told me that it is bound to burst before many days passed .
it has been getting worse for years .
i got it from over-exposure and under-feeding among the salt lake mountains .
i 've done my work now , and i don 't care how soon i go , but i should like to leave some account of the business behind me . i don 't want to be remembered as a common cut-throat . "
the inspector and the two detectives had a hurried discussion as to the advisability of allowing him to tell his story .
" do you consider , doctor , that there is immediate danger ? " the former asked ,
" most certainly there is , " i answered .
" in that case it is clearly our duty , in the interests of justice , to take his statement , " said the inspector .
" you are at liberty , sir , to give your account , which i again warn you will be taken down . "
" i 'll sit down , with your leave , " the prisoner said , suiting the action to the word .
" this aneurism of mine makes me easily tired , and the tussle we had half an hour ago has not mended matters .
i 'm on the brink of the grave , and i am not likely to lie to you .
every word i say is the absolute truth , and how you use it is a matter of no consequence to me . "
with these words , jefferson hope leaned back in his chair and began the following remarkable statement . he spoke in a calm and methodical manner , as though the events which he narrated were commonplace enough .
i can vouch for the accuracy of the subjoined account , for i have had access to lestrade 's note-book , in which the prisoner 's words were taken down exactly as they were uttered .
" it don 't much matter to you why i hated these men , " he said ; " it 's enough that they were guilty of the death of two human beings - a father and a daughter - and that they had , therefore , forfeited their own lives .
after the lapse of time that has passed since their crime , it was impossible for me to secure a conviction against them in any court . i knew of their guilt though , and i determined that i should be judge , jury , and executioner all rolled into one .
you 'd have done the same , if you have any manhood in you , if you had been in my place .
" that girl that i spoke of was to have married me twenty years ago .
she was forced into marrying that same drebber , and broke her heart over it .
i took the marriage ring from her dead finger , and i vowed that his dying eyes should rest upon that very ring , and that his last thoughts should be of the crime for which he was punished .
i have carried it about with me , and have followed him and his accomplice over two continents until i caught them .
they thought to tire me out , but they could not do it .
if i die to-morrow , as is likely enough , i die knowing that my work in this world is done , and well done .
they have perished , and by my hand .
there is nothing left for me to hope for , or to desire .
" they were rich and i was poor , so that it was no easy matter for me to follow them .
when i got to london my pocket was about empty , and i found that i must turn my hand to something for my living .
driving and riding are as natural to me as walking , so i applied at a cabowner 's office , and soon got employment .
i was to bring a certain sum a week to the owner , and whatever was over that i might keep for myself .
there was seldom much over , but i managed to scrape along somehow .
the hardest job was to learn my way about , for i reckon that of all the mazes that ever were contrived , this city is the most confusing .
i had a map beside me though , and when once i had spotted the principal hotels and stations , i got on pretty well .
" it was some time before i found out where my two gentlemen were living ; but i inquired and inquired until at last i dropped across them . they were at a boarding-house at camberwell , over on the other side of the river .
when once i found them out i knew that i had them at my mercy .
i had grown my beard , and there was no chance of their recognizing me . i would dog them and follow them until i saw my opportunity .
i was determined that they should not escape me again .
" they were very near doing it for all that .
go where they would about london , i was always at their heels . sometimes i followed them on my cab , and sometimes on foot , but the former was the best , for then they could not get away from me .
it was only early in the morning or late at night that i could earn anything , so that i began to get behind hand with my employer .
i did not mind that , however , as long as i could lay my hand upon the men i wanted .
" they were very cunning , though .
they must have thought that there was some chance of their being followed , for they would never go out alone , and never after nightfall .
during two weeks i drove behind them every day , and never once saw them separate .
drebber himself was drunk half the time , but stangerson was not to be caught napping .
i watched them late and early , but never saw the ghost of a chance ; but i was not discouraged , for something told me that the hour had almost come .
my only fear was that this thing in my chest might burst a little too soon and leave my work undone .
" at last , one evening i was driving up and down torquay terrace , as the street was called in which they boarded , when i saw a cab drive up to their door .
presently some luggage was brought out , and after a time drebber and stangerson followed it , and drove off .
i whipped up my horse and kept within sight of them , feeling very ill at ease , for i feared that they were going to shift their quarters .
at euston station they got out , and i left a boy to hold my horse , and followed them on to the platform .
i heard them ask for the liverpool train , and the guard answer that one had just gone and there would not be another for some hours .
stangerson seemed to be put out at that , but drebber was rather pleased than otherwise .
i got so close to them in the bustle that i could hear every word that passed between them .
drebber said that he had a little business of his own to do , and that if the other would wait for him he would soon rejoin him .
his companion remonstrated with him , and reminded him that they had resolved to stick together .
drebber answered that the matter was a delicate one , and that he must go alone . i could not catch what stangerson said to that , but the other burst out swearing , and reminded him that he was nothing more than his paid servant , and that he must not presume to dictate to him .
on that the secretary gave it up as a bad job , and simply bargained with him that if he missed the last train he should rejoin him at halliday 's private hotel ; to which drebber answered that he would be back on the platform before eleven , and made his way out of the station .
" the moment for which i had waited so long had at last come .
i had my enemies within my power .
together they could protect each other , but singly they were at my mercy .
i did not act , however , with undue precipitation .
my plans were already formed . there is no satisfaction in vengeance unless the offender has time to realize who it is that strikes him , and why retribution has come upon him .
i had my plans arranged by which i should have the opportunity of making the man who had wronged me understand that his old sin had found him out .
it chanced that some days before a gentleman who had been engaged in looking over some houses in the brixton road had dropped the key of one of them in my carriage .
it was claimed that same evening , and returned ; but in the interval i had taken a moulding of it , and had a duplicate constructed .
by means of this i had access to at least one spot in this great city where i could rely upon being free from interruption .
how to get drebber to that house was the difficult problem which i had now to solve .
" he walked down the road and went into one or two liquor shops , staying for nearly half-an-hour in the last of them .
when he came out he staggered in his walk , and was evidently pretty well on .
there was a hansom just in front of me , and he hailed it .
i followed it so close that the nose of my horse was within a yard of his driver the whole way .
we rattled across waterloo bridge and through miles of streets , until , to my astonishment , we found ourselves back in the terrace in which he had boarded .
i could not imagine what his intention was in returning there ; but i went on and pulled up my cab a hundred yards or so from the house .
he entered it , and his hansom drove away .
give me a glass of water , if you please . my mouth gets dry with the talking . "
i handed him the glass , and he drank it down .
" that 's better , " he said .
" well , i waited for a quarter of an hour , or more , when suddenly there came a noise like people struggling inside the house .
next moment the door was flung open and two men appeared , one of whom was drebber , and the other was a young chap whom i had never seen before .
this fellow had drebber by the collar , and when they came to the head of the steps he gave him a shove and a kick which sent him half across the road .
'you hound , ' he cried , shaking his stick at him ; ' i 'll teach you to insult an honest girl ! '
he was so hot that i think he would have thrashed drebber with his cudgel , only that the cur staggered away down the road as fast as his legs would carry him .
he ran as far as the corner , and then , seeing my cab , he hailed me and jumped in . ' drive me to halliday 's private hotel , ' said he .
" when i had him fairly inside my cab , my heart jumped so with joy that i feared lest at this last moment my aneurism might go wrong .
i drove along slowly , weighing in my own mind what it was best to do .
i might take him right out into the country , and there in some deserted lane have my last interview with him . i had almost decided upon this , when he solved the problem for me .
the craze for drink had seized him again , and he ordered me to pull up outside a gin palace . he went in , leaving word that i should wait for him .
there he remained until closing time , and when he came out he was so far gone that i knew the game was in my own hands .
" don 't imagine that i intended to kill him in cold blood . it would only have been rigid justice if i had done so , but i could not bring myself to do it .
i had long determined that he should have a show for his life if he chose to take advantage of it .
among the many billets which i have filled in america during my wandering life , i was once janitor and sweeper out of the laboratory at york college .
one day the professor was lecturing on poisions , and he showed his students some alkaloid , as he called it , which he had extracted from some south american arrow poison , and which was so powerful that the least grain meant instant death .
i spotted the bottle in which this preparation was kept , and when they were all gone , i helped myself to a little of it .
i was a fairly good dispenser , so i worked this alkaloid into small , soluble pills , and each pill i put in a box with a similar pill made without the poison .
i determined at the time that when i had my chance , my gentlemen should each have a draw out of one of these boxes , while i ate the pill that remained .
it would be quite as deadly , and a good deal less noisy than firing across a handkerchief .
from that day i had always my pill boxes about with me , and the time had now come when i was to use them .
" it was nearer one than twelve , and a wild , bleak night , blowing hard and raining in torrents . dismal as it was outside , i was glad within - so glad that i could have shouted out from pure exultation .
if any of you gentlemen have ever pined for a thing , and longed for it during twenty long years , and then suddenly found it within your reach , you would understand my feelings .
i lit a cigar , and puffed at it to steady my nerves , but my hands were trembling , and my temples throbbing with excitement .
as i drove , i could see old john ferrier and sweet lucy looking at me out of the darkness and smiling at me , just as plain as i see you all in this room . all the way they were ahead of me , one on each side of the horse until i pulled up at the house in the brixton road .
" there was not a soul to be seen , nor a sound to be heard , except the dripping of the rain .
when i looked in at the window , i found drebber all huddled together in a drunken sleep .
i shook him by the arm , ' it 's time to get out , ' i said .
" ' all right , cabby , ' said he .
" i suppose he thought we had come to the hotel that he had mentioned , for he got out without another word , and followed me down the garden .
i had to walk beside him to keep him steady , for he was still a little top-heavy .
when we came to the door , i opened it , and led him into the front room .
i give you my word that all the way , the father and the daughter were walking in front of us .
" ' it 's infernally dark , ' said he , stamping about .
" ' we 'll soon have a light , ' i said , striking a match and putting it to a wax candle which i had brought with me .
'now , enoch drebber , ' i continued , turning to him , and holding the light to my own face , ' who am i ? '
" he gazed at me with bleared , drunken eyes for a moment , and then i saw a horror spring up in them , and convulse his whole features , which showed me that he knew me . he staggered back with a livid face , and i saw the perspiration break out upon his brow , while his teeth chattered in his head .
at the sight , i leaned my back against the door and laughed loud and long .
i had always known that vengeance would be sweet , but i had never hoped for the contentment of soul which now possessed me .
" ' you dog ! ' i said ; ' i have hunted you from salt lake city to st .
petersburg , and you have always escaped me . now , at last your wanderings have come to an end , for either you or i shall never see to-morrow 's sun rise . '
he shrunk still further away as i spoke , and i could see on his face that he thought i was mad .
so i was for the time .
the pulses in my temples beat like sledge-hammers , and i believe i would have had a fit of some sort if the blood had not gushed from my nose and relieved me .
i cried , locking the door , and shaking the key in his face . ' punishment has been slow in coming , but it has overtaken you at last . '
i saw his coward lips tremble as i spoke . he would have begged for his life , but he knew well that it was useless .
" ' would you murder me ? ' he stammered .
" ' there is no murder , ' i answered .
'who talks of murdering a mad dog ?
what mercy had you upon my poor darling , when you dragged her from her slaughtered father , and bore her away to your accursed and shameless harem . '
" ' it was not i who killed her father , ' he cried .
" ' but it was you who broke her innocent heart , ' i shrieked , thrusting the box before him .
'let the high god judge between us . choose and eat .
there is death in one and life in the other . i shall take what you leave .
let us see if there is justice upon the earth , or if we are ruled by chance . '
" he cowered away with wild cries and prayers for mercy , but i drew my knife and held it to his throat until he had obeyed me .
then i swallowed the other , and we stood facing one another in silence for a minute or more , waiting to see which was to live and which was to die .
shall i ever forget the look which came over his face when the first warning pangs told him that the poison was in his system ?
i laughed as i saw it , and held lucy 's marriage ring in front of his eyes .
it was but for a moment , for the action of the alkaloid is rapid .
a spasm of pain contorted his features ; he threw his hands out in front of him , staggered , and then , with a hoarse cry , fell heavily upon the floor .
i turned him over with my foot , and placed my hand upon his heart . there was no movement .
" the blood had been streaming from my nose , but i had taken no notice of it .
i don 't know what it was that put it into my head to write upon the wall with it .
perhaps it was some mischievous idea of setting the police upon a wrong track , for i felt light-hearted and cheerful .
i remembered a german being found in new york with rache written up above him , and it was argued at the time in the newspapers that the secret societies must have done it .
i guessed that what puzzled the new yorkers would puzzle the londoners , so i dipped my finger in my own blood and printed it on a convenient place on the wall .
then i walked down to my cab and found that there was nobody about , and that the night was still very wild .
i had driven some distance when i put my hand into the pocket in which i usually kept lucy 's ring , and found that it was not there .
i was thunderstruck at this , for it was the only memento that i had of her .
thinking that i might have dropped it when i stooped over drebber 's body , i drove back , and leaving my cab in a side street , i went boldly up to the house - for i was ready to dare anything rather than lose the ring .
however , i travelled along the shore of the sea towards the east , i suppose about twelve miles , and then setting up a great pole upon the shore for a mark , i concluded i would go home again , and that the next journey i took should be on the other side of the island east from my dwelling , and so round till i came to my post again .
i took another way to come back than that i went , thinking i could easily keep all the island so much in my view that i could not miss finding my first dwelling by viewing the country ; but i found myself mistaken , for being come about two or three miles , i found myself descended into a very large valley , but so surrounded with hills , and those hills covered with wood , that i could not see which was my way by any direction but that of the sun , nor even then , unless i knew very well the position of the sun at that time of the day .
it happened , to my further misfortune , that the weather proved hazy for three or four days while i was in the valley , and not being able to see the sun , i wandered about very uncomfortably , and at last was obliged to find the seaside , look for my post , and come back the same way i went : and then , by easy journeys , i turned homeward , the weather being exceeding hot , and my gun , ammunition , hatchet , and other things very heavy .
in this journey my dog surprised a young kid , and seized upon it ; and i , running in to take hold of it , caught it , and saved it alive from the dog .
i had a great mind to bring it home if i could , for i had often been musing whether it might not be possible to get a kid or two , and so raise a breed of tame goats , which might supply me when my powder and shot should be all spent .
i made a collar for this little creature , and with a string , which i made of some rope-yam , which i always carried about me , i led him along , though with some difficulty , till i came to my bower , and there i enclosed him and left him , for i was very impatient to be at home , from whence i had been absent above a month .
i cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to come into my old hutch , and lie down in my hammock-bed .
this little wandering journey , without settled place of abode , had been so unpleasant to me , that my own house , as i called it to myself , was a perfect settlement to me compared to that ; and it rendered everything about me so comfortable , that i resolved i would never go a great way from it again while it should be my lot to stay on the island .
i reposed myself here a week , to rest and regale myself after my long journey ; during which most of the time was taken up in the weighty affair of making a cage for my poll , who began now to be a mere domestic , and to be well acquainted with me .
then i began to think of the poor kid which i had penned in within my little circle , and resolved to go and fetch it home , or give it some food ; accordingly i went , and found it where i left it , for indeed it could not get out , but was almost starved for want of food .
i went and cut boughs of trees , and branches of such shrubs as i could find , and threw it over , and having fed it , i tied it as i did before , to lead it away ; but it was so tame with being hungry , that i had no need to have tied it , for it followed me like a dog : and as i continually fed it , the creature became so loving , so gentle , and so fond , that it became from that time one of my domestics also , and would never leave me afterwards .
the rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come , and i kept the 30th of september in the same solemn manner as before , being the anniversary of my landing on the island , having now been there two years , and no more prospect of being delivered than the first day i came there , i spent the whole day in humble and thankful acknowledgments of the many wonderful mercies which my solitary condition was attended with , and without which it might have been infinitely more miserable .
i gave humble and hearty thanks that god had been pleased to discover to me that it was possible i might be more happy in this solitary condition than i should have been in the liberty of society , and in all the pleasures of the world ; that he could fully make up to me the deficiencies of my solitary state , and the want of human society , by his presence and the communications of his grace to my soul ; supporting , comforting , and encouraging me to depend upon his providence here , and hope for his eternal presence hereafter .
it was now that i began sensibly to feel how much more happy this life i now led was , with all its miserable circumstances , than the wicked , cursed , abominable life i led all the past part of my days ; and now i changed both my sorrows and my joys ; my very desires altered , my affections changed their gusts , and my delights were perfectly new from what they were at my first coming , or , indeed , for the two years past .
before , as i walked about , either on my hunting or for viewing the country , the anguish of my soul at my condition would break out upon me on a sudden , and my very heart would die within me , to think of the woods , the mountains , the deserts i was in , and how i was a prisoner , locked up with the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean , in an uninhabited wilderness , without redemption .
in the midst of the greatest composure of my mind , this would break out upon me like a storm , and make me wring my hands and weep like a child .
sometimes it would take me in the middle of my work , and i would immediately sit down and sigh , and look upon the ground for an hour or two together ; and this was still worse to me , for if i could burst out into tears , or vent myself by words , it would go off , and the grief , having exhausted itself , would abate .
but now i began to exercise myself with new thoughts : i daily read the word of god , and applied all the comforts of it to my present state .
one morning , being very sad , i opened the bible upon these words , " i will never , never leave thee , nor forsake thee . "
immediately it occurred that these words were to me ; why else should they be directed in such a manner , just at the moment when i was mourning over my condition , as one forsaken of god and man ? " well , then , " said i , " if god does not forsake me , of what ill consequence can it be , or what matters it , though the world should all forsake me , seeing on the other hand , if i had all the world , and should lose the favour and blessing of god , there would be no comparison in the loss ? "
from this moment i began to conclude in my mind that it was possible for me to be more happy in this forsaken , solitary condition than it was probable i should ever have been in any other particular state in the world ; and with this thought i was going to give thanks to god for bringing me to this place .
i know not what it was , but something shocked my mind at that thought , and i durst not speak the words . " how canst thou become such a hypocrite , " said i , even audibly , " to pretend to be thankful for a condition which , however thou mayest endeavour to be contented with , thou wouldst rather pray heartily to be delivered from ? "
so i stopped there ; but though i could not say i thanked god for being there , yet i sincerely gave thanks to god for opening my eyes , by whatever afflicting providences , to see the former condition of my life , and to mourn for my wickedness , and repent . i never opened the bible , or shut it , but my very soul within me blessed god for directing my friend in england , without any order of mine , to pack it up among my goods , and for assisting me afterwards to save it out of the wreck of the ship .
thus , and in this disposition of mind , i began my third year ; and though i have not given the reader the trouble of so particular an account of my works this year as the first , yet in general it may be observed that i was very seldom idle , but having regularly divided my time according to the several daily employments that were before me , such as : first , my duty to god , and the reading the scriptures , which i constantly set apart some time for thrice every day ; secondly , the going abroad with my gun for food , which generally took me up three hours in every morning , when it did not rain ; thirdly , the ordering , cutting , preserving , and cooking what i had killed or caught for my supply ; these took up great part of the day .
also , it is to be considered , that in the middle of the day , when the sun was in the zenith , the violence of the heat was too great to stir out ; so that about four hours in the evening was all the time i could be supposed to work in , with this exception , that sometimes i changed my hours of hunting and working , and went to work in the morning , and abroad with my gun in the afternoon .
to this short time allowed for labour i desire may be added the exceeding laboriousness of my work ; the many hours which , for want of tools , want of help , and want of skill , everything i did took up out of my time .
for example , i was full two and forty days in making a board for a long shelf , which i wanted in my cave ; whereas , two sawyers , with their tools and a saw-pit , would have cut six of them out of the same tree in half a day .
my case was this : it was to be a large tree which was to be cut down , because my board was to be a broad one .
this tree i was three days in cutting down , and two more cutting off the boughs , and reducing it to a log or piece of timber .
with inexpressible hacking and hewing i reduced both the sides of it into chips till it began to be light enough to move ; then i turned it , and made one side of it smooth and flat as a board from end to end ; then , turning that side downward , cut the other side til i brought the plank to be about three inches thick , and smooth on both sides .
any one may judge the labour of my hands in such a piece of work ; but labour and patience carried me through that , and many other things . i only observe this in particular , to show the reason why so much of my time went away with so little work - viz. that what might be a little to be done with help and tools , was a vast labour and required a prodigious time to do alone , and by hand .
but notwithstanding this , with patience and labour i got through everything that my circumstances made necessary to me to do , as will appear by what follows .
i was now , in the months of november and december , expecting my crop of barley and rice .
the ground i had manured and dug up for them was not great ; for , as i observed , my seed of each was not above the quantity of half a peck , for i had lost one whole crop by sowing in the dry season .
but now my crop promised very well , when on a sudden i found i was in danger of losing it all again by enemies of several sorts , which it was scarcely possible to keep from it ; as , first , the goats , and wild creatures which i called hares , who , tasting the sweetness of the blade , lay in it night and day , as soon as it came up , and eat it so close , that it could get no time to shoot up into stalk .
this i saw no remedy for but by making an enclosure about it with a hedge ; which i did with a great deal of toil , and the more , because it required speed .
however , as my arable land was but small , suited to my crop , i got it totally well fenced in about three weeks ' time ; and shooting some of the creatures in the daytime , i set my dog to guard it in the night , tying him up to a stake at the gate , where he would stand and bark all night long ; so in a little time the enemies forsook the place , and the corn grew very strong and well , and began to ripen apace .
but as the beasts ruined me before , while my corn was in the blade , so the birds were as likely to ruin me now , when it was in the ear ; for , going along by the place to see how it throve , i saw my little crop surrounded with fowls , of i know not how many sorts , who stood , as it were , watching till i should be gone .
i immediately let fly among them , for i always had my gun with me . i had no sooner shot , but there rose up a little cloud of fowls , which i had not seen at all , from among the corn itself .
this touched me sensibly , for i foresaw that in a few days they would devour all my hopes ; that i should be starved , and never be able to raise a crop at all ; and what to do i could not tell ; however , i resolved not to lose my corn , if possible , though i should watch it night and day .
in the first place , i went among it to see what damage was already done , and found they had spoiled a good deal of it ; but that as it was yet too green for them , the loss was not so great but that the remainder was likely to be a good crop if it could be saved .
i stayed by it to load my gun , and then coming away , i could easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees about me , as if they only waited till i was gone away , and the event proved it to be so ; for as i walked off , as if i was gone , i was no sooner out of their sight than they dropped down one by one into the corn again .
i was so provoked , that i could not have patience to stay till more came on , knowing that every grain that they ate now was , as it might be said , a peck-loaf to me in the consequence ; but coming up to the hedge , i fired again , and killed three of them .
this was what i wished for ; so i took them up , and served them as we serve notorious thieves in england - hanged them in chains , for a terror to others .
it is impossible to imagine that this should have such an effect as it had , for the fowls would not only not come at the corn , but , in short , they forsook all that part of the island , and i could never see a bird near the place as long as my scarecrows hung there .
this i was very glad of , you may be sure , and about the latter end of december , which was our second harvest of the year , i reaped my corn .
i was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it down , and all i could do was to make one , as well as i could , out of one of the broadswords , or cutlasses , which i saved among the arms out of the ship .
however , as my first crop was but small , i had no great difficulty to cut it down ; in short , i reaped it in my way , for i cut nothing off but the ears , and carried it away in a great basket which i had made , and so rubbed it out with my hands ; and at the end of all my harvesting , i found that out of my half-peck of seed i had near two bushels of rice , and about two bushels and a half of barley ; that is to say , by my guess , for i had no measure at that time .
however , this was a great encouragement to me , and i foresaw that , in time , it would please god to supply me with bread .
and yet here i was perplexed again , for i neither knew how to grind or make meal of my corn , or indeed how to clean it and part it ; nor , if made into meal , how to make bread of it ; and if how to make it , yet i knew not how to bake it .
these things being added to my desire of having a good quantity for store , and to secure a constant supply , i resolved not to taste any of this crop but to preserve it all for seed against the next season ; and in the meantime to employ all my study and hours of working to accomplish this great work of providing myself with corn and bread .
it might be truly said , that now i worked for my bread .
i believe few people have thought much upon the strange multitude of little things necessary in the providing , producing , curing , dressing , making , and finishing this one article of bread .
i , that was reduced to a mere state of nature , found this to my daily discouragement ; and was made more sensible of it every hour , even after i had got the first handful of seed-corn , which , as i have said , came up unexpectedly , and indeed to a surprise .
first , i had no plough to turn up the earth - no spade or shovel to dig it .
well , this i conquered by making me a wooden spade , as i observed before ; but this did my work but in a wooden manner ; and though it cost me a great many days to make it , yet , for want of iron , it not only wore out soon , but made my work the harder , and made it be performed much worse .
however , this i bore with , and was content to work it out with patience , and bear with the badness of the performance .
when the corn was sown , i had no harrow , but was forced to go over it myself , and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it , to scratch it , as it may be called , rather than rake or harrow it .
when it was growing , and grown , i have observed already how many things i wanted to fence it , secure it , mow or reap it , cure and carry it home , thrash , part it from the chaff , and save it .
then i wanted a mill to grind it sieves to dress it , yeast and salt to make it into bread , and an oven to bake it ; but all these things i did without , as shall be observed ; and yet the corn was an inestimable comfort and advantage to me too .
all this , as i said , made everything laborious and tedious to me ; but that there was no help for .
neither was my time so much loss to me , because , as i had divided it , a certain part of it was every day appointed to these works ; and as i had resolved to use none of the corn for bread till i had a greater quantity by me , i had the next six months to apply myself wholly , by labour and invention , to furnish myself with utensils proper for the performing all the operations necessary for making the corn , when i had it , fit for my use .
chapter ix - a boat
but first i was to prepare more land , for i had now seed enough to sow above an acre of ground . before i did this , i had a week 's work at least to make me a spade , which , when it was done , was but a sorry one indeed , and very heavy , and required double labour to work with it .
however , i got through that , and sowed my seed in two large flat pieces of ground , as near my house as i could find them to my mind , and fenced them in with a good hedge , the stakes of which were all cut off that wood which i had set before , and knew it would grow ; so that , in a year 's time , i knew i should have a quick or living hedge , that would want but little repair . this work did not take me up less than three months , because a great part of that time was the wet season , when i could not go abroad .
within-doors , that is when it rained and i could not go out , i found employment in the following occupations - always observing , that all the while i was at work i diverted myself with talking to my parrot , and teaching him to speak ; and i quickly taught him to know his own name , and at last to speak it out pretty loud , " poll , " which was the first word i ever heard spoken in the island by any mouth but my own .
this , therefore , was not my work , but an assistance to my work ; for now , as i said , i had a great employment upon my hands , as follows : i had long studied to make , by some means or other , some earthen vessels , which , indeed , i wanted sorely , but knew not where to come at them .
however , considering the heat of the climate , i did not doubt but if i could find out any clay , i might make some pots that might , being dried in the sun , be hard enough and strong enough to bear handling , and to hold anything that was dry , and required to be kept so ; and as this was necessary in the preparing corn , meal , & c . , which was the thing i was doing , i resolved to make some as large as i could , and fit only to stand like jars , to hold what should be put into them .
it would make the reader pity me , or rather laugh at me , to tell how many awkward ways i took to raise this paste ; what odd , misshapen , ugly things i made ; how many of them fell in and how many fell out , the clay not being stiff enough to bear its own weight ; how many cracked by the over-violent heat of the sun , being set out too hastily ; and how many fell in pieces with only removing , as well before as after they were dried ; and , in a word , how , after having laboured hard to find the clay - to dig it , to temper it , to bring it home , and work it - i could not make above two large earthen ugly things ( i cannot call them jars ) in about two months ' labour .
however , as the sun baked these two very dry and hard , i lifted them very gently up , and set them down again in two great wicker baskets , which i had made on purpose for them , that they might not break ; and as between the pot and the basket there was a little room to spare , i stuffed it full of the rice and barley straw ; and these two pots being to stand always dry i thought would hold my dry corn , and perhaps the meal , when the corn was bruised .
though i miscarried so much in my design for large pots , yet i made several smaller things with better success ; such as little round pots , flat dishes , pitchers , and pipkins , and any things my hand turned to ; and the heat of the sun baked them quite hard .
but all this would not answer my end , which was to get an earthen pot to hold what was liquid , and bear the fire , which none of these could do .
it happened after some time , making a pretty large fire for cooking my meat , when i went to put it out after i had done with it , i found a broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the fire , burnt as hard as a stone , and red as a tile .
i was agreeably surprised to see it , and said to myself , that certainly they might be made to burn whole , if they would burn broken .
this set me to study how to order my fire , so as to make it burn some pots .
i had no notion of a kiln , such as the potters burn in , or of glazing them with lead , though i had some lead to do it with ; but i placed three large pipkins and two or three pots in a pile , one upon another , and placed my firewood all round it , with a great heap of embers under them .
i plied the fire with fresh fuel round the outside and upon the top , till i saw the pots in the inside red-hot quite through , and observed that they did not crack at all .
when i saw them clear red , i let them stand in that heat about five or six hours , till i found one of them , though it did not crack , did melt or run ; for the sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the violence of the heat , and would have run into glass if i had gone on ; so i slacked my fire gradually till the pots began to abate of the red colour ; and watching them all night , that i might not let the fire abate too fast , in the morning i had three very good ( i will not say handsome ) pipkins , and two other earthen pots , as hard burnt as could be desired , and one of them perfectly glazed with the running of the sand .
after this experiment , i need not say that i wanted no sort of earthenware for my use ; but i must needs say as to the shapes of them , they were very indifferent , as any one may suppose , when i had no way of making them but as the children make dirt pies , or as a woman would make pies that never learned to raise paste .
no joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to mine , when i found i had made an earthen pot that would bear the fire ; and i had hardly patience to stay till they were cold before i set one on the fire again with some water in it to boil me some meat , which it did admirably well ; and with a piece of a kid i made some very good broth , though i wanted oatmeal , and several other ingredients requisite to make it as good as i would have had it been .
my next concern was to get me a stone mortar to stamp or beat some corn in ; for as to the mill , there was no thought of arriving at that perfection of art with one pair of hands .
to supply this want , i was at a great loss ; for , of all the trades in the world , i was as perfectly unqualified for a stone-cutter as for any whatever ; neither had i any tools to go about it with .
i spent many a day to find out a great stone big enough to cut hollow , and make fit for a mortar , and could find none at all , except what was in the solid rock , and which i had no way to dig or cut out ; nor indeed were the rocks in the island of hardness sufficient , but were all of a sandy , crumbling stone , which neither would bear the weight of a heavy pestle , nor would break the corn without filling it with sand .
so , after a great deal of time lost in searching for a stone , i gave it over , and resolved to look out for a great block of hard wood , which i found , indeed , much easier ; and getting one as big as i had strength to stir , i rounded it , and formed it on the outside with my axe and hatchet , and then with the help of fire and infinite labour , made a hollow place in it , as the indians in brazil make their canoes .
after this , i made a great heavy pestle or beater of the wood called the iron-wood ; and this i prepared and laid by against i had my next crop of corn , which i proposed to myself to grind , or rather pound into meal to make bread .
my next difficulty was to make a sieve or searce , to dress my meal , and to part it from the bran and the husk ; without which i did not see it possible i could have any bread . this was a most difficult thing even to think on , for to be sure i had nothing like the necessary thing to make it - i mean fine thin canvas or stuff to searce the meal through .
and here i was at a full stop for many months ; nor did i really know what to do .
linen i had none left but what was mere rags ; i had goat 's hair , but neither knew how to weave it or spin it ; and had i known how , here were no tools to work it with .
all the remedy that i found for this was , that at last i did remember i had , among the seamen 's clothes which were saved out of the ship , some neckcloths of calico or muslin ; and with some pieces of these i made three small sieves proper enough for the work ; and thus i made shift for some years : how i did afterwards , i shall show in its place .
the baking part was the next thing to be considered , and how i should make bread when i came to have corn ; for first , i had no yeast .
as to that part , there was no supplying the want , so i did not concern myself much about it .
but for an oven i was indeed in great pain .
at length i found out an experiment for that also , which was this : i made some earthen-vessels very broad but not deep , that is to say , about two feet diameter , and not above nine inches deep .
these i burned in the fire , as i had done the other , and laid them by ; and when i wanted to bake , i made a great fire upon my hearth , which i had paved with some square tiles of my own baking and burning also ; but i should not call them square .
when the firewood was burned pretty much into embers or live coals , i drew them forward upon this hearth , so as to cover it all over , and there i let them lie till the hearth was very hot .
then sweeping away all the embers , i set down my loaf or loaves , and whelming down the earthen pot upon them , drew the embers all round the outside of the pot , to keep in and add to the heat ; and thus as well as in the best oven in the world , i baked my barley-loaves , and became in little time a good pastrycook into the bargain ; for i made myself several cakes and puddings of the rice ; but i made no pies , neither had i anything to put into them supposing i had , except the flesh either of fowls or goats .
it need not be wondered at if all these things took me up most part of the third year of my abode here ; for it is to be observed that in the intervals of these things i had my new harvest and husbandry to manage ; for i reaped my corn in its season , and carried it home as well as i could , and laid it up in the ear , in my large baskets , till i had time to rub it out , for i had no floor to thrash it on , or instrument to thrash it with .
and now , indeed , my stock of corn increasing , i really wanted to build my barns bigger ; i wanted a place to lay it up in , for the increase of the corn now yielded me so much , that i had of the barley about twenty bushels , and of the rice as much or more ; insomuch that now i resolved to begin to use it freely ; for my bread had been quite gone a great while ; also i resolved to see what quantity would be sufficient for me a whole year , and to sow but once a year .
upon the whole , i found that the forty bushels of barley and rice were much more than i could consume in a year ; so i resolved to sow just the same quantity every year that i sowed the last , in hopes that such a quantity would fully provide me with bread , & c .
all the while these things were doing , you may be sure my thoughts ran many times upon the prospect of land which i had seen from the other side of the island ; and i was not without secret wishes that i were on shore there , fancying that , seeing the mainland , and an inhabited country , i might find some way or other to convey myself further , and perhaps at last find some means of escape .
but all this while i made no allowance for the dangers of such an undertaking , and how i might fall into the hands of savages , and perhaps such as i might have reason to think far worse than the lions and tigers of africa : that if i once came in their power , i should run a hazard of more than a thousand to one of being killed , and perhaps of being eaten ; for i had heard that the people of the caribbean coast were cannibals or man-eaters , and i knew by the latitude that i could not be far from that shore .
then , supposing they were not cannibals , yet they might kill me , as many europeans who had fallen into their hands had been served , even when they had been ten or twenty together - much more i , that was but one , and could make little or no defence ; all these things , i say , which i ought to have considered well ; and did come into my thoughts afterwards , yet gave me no apprehensions at first , and my head ran mightily upon the thought of getting over to the shore .
now i wished for my boy xury , and the long-boat with shoulder-of-mutton sail , with which i sailed above a thousand miles on the coast of africa ; but this was in vain : then i thought i would go and look at our ship 's boat , which , as i have said , was blown up upon the shore a great way , in the storm , when we were first cast away .
she lay almost where she did at first , but not quite ; and was turned , by the force of the waves and the winds , almost bottom upward , against a high ridge of beachy , rough sand , but no water about her .
if i had had hands to have refitted her , and to have launched her into the water , the boat would have done well enough , and i might have gone back into the brazils with her easily enough ; but i might have foreseen that i could no more turn her and set her upright upon her bottom than i could remove the island ; however , i went to the woods , and cut levers and rollers , and brought them to the boat resolving to try what i could do ; suggesting to myself that if i could but turn her down , i might repair the damage she had received , and she would be a very good boat , and i might go to sea in her very easily .
i spared no pains , indeed , in this piece of fruitless toil , and spent , i think , three or four weeks about it ; at last finding it impossible to heave it up with my little strength , i fell to digging away the sand , to undermine it , and so to make it fall down , setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide it right in the fall .
but when i had done this , i was unable to stir it up again , or to get under it , much less to move it forward towards the water ; so i was forced to give it over ; and yet , though i gave over the hopes of the boat , my desire to venture over for the main increased , rather than decreased , as the means for it seemed impossible .
this at length put me upon thinking whether it was not possible to make myself a canoe , or periagua , such as the natives of those climates make , even without tools , or , as i might say , without hands , of the trunk of a great tree .
this i not only thought possible , but easy , and pleased myself extremely with the thoughts of making it , and with my having much more convenience for it than any of the negroes or indians ; but not at all considering the particular inconveniences which i lay under more than the indians did - viz. want of hands to move it , when it was made , into the water - a difficulty much harder for me to surmount than all the consequences of want of tools could be to them ; for what was it to me , if when i had chosen a vast tree in the woods , and with much trouble cut it down , if i had been able with my tools to hew and dub the outside into the proper shape of a boat , and burn or cut out the inside to make it hollow , so as to make a boat of it - if , after all this , i must leave it just there where i found it , and not be able to launch it into the water ?
one would have thought i could not have had the least reflection upon my mind of my circumstances while i was making this boat , but i should have immediately thought how i should get it into the sea ; but my thoughts were so intent upon my voyage over the sea in it , that i never once considered how i should get it off the land : and it was really , in its own nature , more easy for me to guide it over forty-five miles of sea than about forty-five fathoms of land , where it lay , to set it afloat in the water .
i went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever man did who had any of his senses awake .
i pleased myself with the design , without determining whether i was ever able to undertake it ; not but that the difficulty of launching my boat came often into my head ; but i put a stop to my inquiries into it by this foolish answer which i gave myself - " let me first make it ; i warrant i will find some way or other to get it along when it is done . "
this was a most preposterous method ; but the eagerness of my fancy prevailed , and to work i went .
i felled a cedar-tree , and i question much whether solomon ever had such a one for the building of the temple of jerusalem ; it was five feet ten inches diameter at the lower part next the stump , and four feet eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two feet ; after which it lessened for a while , and then parted into branches .
it was not without infinite labour that i felled this tree ; i was twenty days hacking and hewing at it at the bottom ; i was fourteen more getting the branches and limbs and the vast spreading head cut off , which i hacked and hewed through with axe and hatchet , and inexpressible labour ; after this , it cost me a month to shape it and dub it to a proportion , and to something like the bottom of a boat , that it might swim upright as it ought to do .
it cost me near three months more to clear the inside , and work it out so as to make an exact boat of it ; this i did , indeed , without fire , by mere mallet and chisel , and by the dint of hard labour , till i had brought it to be a very handsome periagua , and big enough to have carried six-and-twenty men , and consequently big enough to have carried me and all my cargo .
when i had gone through this work i was extremely delighted with it . the boat was really much bigger than ever i saw a canoe or periagua , that was made of one tree , in my life .
many a weary stroke it had cost , you may be sure ; and had i gotten it into the water , i make no question , but i should have begun the maddest voyage , and the most unlikely to be performed , that ever was undertaken .
but all my devices to get it into the water failed me ; though they cost me infinite labour too .
it lay about one hundred yards from the water , and not more ; but the first inconvenience was , it was up hill towards the creek .
well , to take away this discouragement , i resolved to dig into the surface of the earth , and so make a declivity : this i began , and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains ( but who grudge pains who have their deliverance in view ? ) ; but when this was worked through , and this difficulty managed , it was still much the same , for i could no more stir the canoe than i could the other boat .
then i measured the distance of ground , and resolved to cut a dock or canal , to bring the water up to the canoe , seeing i could not bring the canoe down to the water .
well , i began this work ; and when i began to enter upon it , and calculate how deep it was to be dug , how broad , how the stuff was to be thrown out , i found that , by the number of hands i had , being none but my own , it must have been ten or twelve years before i could have gone through with it ; for the shore lay so high , that at the upper end it must have been at least twenty feet deep ; so at length , though with great reluctancy , i gave this attempt over also .
this grieved me heartily ; and now i saw , though too late , the folly of beginning a work before we count the cost , and before we judge rightly of our own strength to go through with it .
in the middle of this work i finished my fourth year in this place , and kept my anniversary with the same devotion , and with as much comfort as ever before ; for , by a constant study and serious application to the word of god , and by the assistance of his grace , i gained a different knowledge from what i had before . i entertained different notions of things .
i looked now upon the world as a thing remote , which i had nothing to do with , no expectations from , and , indeed , no desires about : in a word , i had nothing indeed to do with it , nor was ever likely to have , so i thought it looked , as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter - viz. as a place i had lived in , but was come out of it ; and well might i say , as father abraham to dives , " between me and thee is a great gulf fixed . "
in the first place , i was removed from all the wickedness of the world here ; i had neither the lusts of the flesh , the lusts of the eye , nor the pride of life .
i had nothing to covet , for i had all that i was now capable of enjoying ; i was lord of the whole manor ; or , if i pleased , i might call myself king or emperor over the whole country which i had possession of : there were no rivals ; i had no competitor , none to dispute sovereignty or command with me : i might have raised ship-loadings of corn , but i had no use for it ; so i let as little grow as i thought enough for my occasion .
i had tortoise or turtle enough , but now and then one was as much as i could put to any use : i had timber enough to have built a fleet of ships ; and i had grapes enough to have made wine , or to have cured into raisins , to have loaded that fleet when it had been built .
but all i could make use of was all that was valuable : i had enough to eat and supply my wants , and what was all the rest to me ?
if i killed more flesh than i could eat , the dog must eat it , or vermin ; if i sowed more corn than i could eat , it must be spoiled ; the trees that i cut down were lying to rot on the ground ; i could make no more use of them but for fuel , and that i had no occasion for but to dress my food .
in a word , the nature and experience of things dictated to me , upon just reflection , that all the good things of this world are no farther good to us than they are for our use ; and that , whatever we may heap up to give others , we enjoy just as much as we can use , and no more .
the most covetous , griping miser in the world would have been cured of the vice of covetousness if he had been in my case ; for i possessed infinitely more than i knew what to do with .
i had no room for desire , except it was of things which i had not , and they were but trifles , though , indeed , of great use to me .
i had , as i hinted before , a parcel of money , as well gold as silver , about thirty-six pounds sterling . alas ! there the sorry , useless stuff lay ; i had no more manner of business for it ; and often thought with myself that i would have given a handful of it for a gross of tobacco-pipes ; or for a hand-mill to grind my corn ; nay , i would have given it all for a sixpenny-worth of turnip and carrot seed out of england , or for a handful of peas and beans , and a bottle of ink .
as it was , i had not the least advantage by it or benefit from it ; but there it lay in a drawer , and grew mouldy with the damp of the cave in the wet seasons ; and if i had had the drawer full of diamonds , it had been the same case - they had been of no manner of value to me , because of no use .
i had now brought my state of life to be much easier in itself than it was at first , and much easier to my mind , as well as to my body .
i frequently sat down to meat with thankfulness , and admired the hand of god 's providence , which had thus spread my table in the wilderness .
i learned to look more upon the bright side of my condition , and less upon the dark side , and to consider what i enjoyed rather than what i wanted ; and this gave me sometimes such secret comforts , that i cannot express them ; and which i take notice of here , to put those discontented people in mind of it , who cannot enjoy comfortably what god has given them , because they see and covet something that he has not given them .
all our discontents about what we want appeared to me to spring from the want of thankfulness for what we have .
another reflection was of great use to me , and doubtless would be so to any one that should fall into such distress as mine was ; and this was , to compare my present condition with what i at first expected it would be ; nay , with what it would certainly have been , if the good providence of god had not wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast up nearer to the shore , where i not only could come at her , but could bring what i got out of her to the shore , for my relief and comfort ; without which , i had wanted for tools to work , weapons for defence , and gunpowder and shot for getting my food .
i spent whole hours , i may say whole days , in representing to myself , in the most lively colours , how i must have acted if i had got nothing out of the ship . how i could not have so much as got any food , except fish and turtles ; and that , as it was long before i found any of them , i must have perished first ; that i should have lived , if i had not perished , like a mere savage ; that if i had killed a goat or a fowl , by any contrivance , i had no way to flay or open it , or part the flesh from the skin and the bowels , or to cut it up ; but must gnaw it with my teeth , and pull it with my claws , like a beast .
these reflections made me very sensible of the goodness of providence to me , and very thankful for my present condition , with all its hardships and misfortunes ; and this part also i cannot but recommend to the reflection of those who are apt , in their misery , to say , " is any affliction like mine ? " let them consider how much worse the cases of some people are , and their case might have been , if providence had thought fit .
i had another reflection , which assisted me also to comfort my mind with hopes ; and this was comparing my present situation with what i had deserved , and had therefore reason to expect from the hand of providence .
i had lived a dreadful life , perfectly destitute of the knowledge and fear of god .
i had been well instructed by father and mother ; neither had they been wanting to me in their early endeavours to infuse a religious awe of god into my mind , a sense of my duty , and what the nature and end of my being required of me . but , alas ! falling early into the seafaring life , which of all lives is the most destitute of the fear of god , though his terrors are always before them ; i say , falling early into the seafaring life , and into seafaring company , all that little sense of religion which i had entertained was laughed out of me by my messmates ; by a hardened despising of dangers , and the views of death , which grew habitual to me by my long absence from all manner of opportunities to converse with anything but what was like myself , or to hear anything that was good or tended towards it .
so void was i of everything that was good , or the least sense of what i was , or was to be , that , in the greatest deliverances i enjoyed - such as my escape from sallee ; my being taken up by the portuguese master of the ship ; my being planted so well in the brazils ; my receiving the cargo from england , and the like - i never had once the words " thank god ! " so much as on my mind , or in my mouth ; nor in the greatest distress had i so much as a thought to pray to him , or so much as to say , " lord , have mercy upon me ! " no , nor to mention the name of god , unless it was to swear by , and blaspheme it .
i had terrible reflections upon my mind for many months , as i have already observed , on account of my wicked and hardened life past ; and when i looked about me , and considered what particular providences had attended me since my coming into this place , and how god had dealt bountifully with me - had not only punished me less than my iniquity had deserved , but had so plentifully provided for me - this gave me great hopes that my repentance was accepted , and that god had yet mercy in store for me .
with these reflections i worked my mind up , not only to a resignation to the will of god in the present disposition of my circumstances , but even to a sincere thankfulness for my condition ; and that i , who was yet a living man , ought not to complain , seeing i had not the due punishment of my sins ; that i enjoyed so many mercies which i had no reason to have expected in that place ; that i ought never more to repine at my condition , but to rejoice , and to give daily thanks for that daily bread , which nothing but a crowd of wonders could have brought ; that i ought to consider i had been fed even by a miracle , even as great as that of feeding elijah by ravens , nay , by a long series of miracles ; and that i could hardly have named a place in the uninhabitable part of the world where i could have been cast more to my advantage ; a place where , as i had no society , which was my affliction on one hand , so i found no ravenous beasts , no furious wolves or tigers , to threaten my life ; no venomous creatures , or poisons , which i might feed on to my hurt ; no savages to murder and devour me .
in a word , as my life was a life of sorrow one way , so it was a life of mercy another ; and i wanted nothing to make it a life of comfort but to be able to make my sense of god 's goodness to me , and care over me in this condition , be my daily consolation ; and after i did make a just improvement on these things , i went away , and was no more sad .
i had now been here so long that many things which i had brought on shore for my help were either quite gone , or very much wasted and near spent .
my ink , as i observed , had been gone some time , all but a very little , which i eked out with water , a little and a little , till it was so pale , it scarce left any appearance of black upon the paper .
as long as it lasted i made use of it to minute down the days of the month on which any remarkable thing happened to me ; and first , by casting up times past , i remembered that there was a strange concurrence of days in the various providences which befell me , and which , if i had been superstitiously inclined to observe days as fatal or fortunate , i might have had reason to have looked upon with a great deal of curiosity .
first , i had observed that the same day that i broke away from my father and friends and ran away to hull , in order to go to sea , the same day afterwards i was taken by the sallee man-of-war , and made a slave ; the same day of the year that i escaped out of the wreck of that ship in yarmouth roads , that same day-year afterwards i made my escape from sallee in a boat ; the same day of the year i was born on - viz. the 30th of september , that same day i had my life so miraculously saved twenty-six years after , when i was cast on shore in this island ; so that my wicked life and my solitary life began both on a day .
the next thing to my ink being wasted was that of my bread - i mean the biscuit which i brought out of the ship ; this i had husbanded to the last degree , allowing myself but one cake of bread a-day for above a year ; and yet i was quite without bread for near a year before i got any corn of my own , and great reason i had to be thankful that i had any at all , the getting it being , as has been already observed , next to miraculous .
my clothes , too , began to decay ; as to linen , i had had none a good while , except some chequered shirts which i found in the chests of the other seamen , and which i carefully preserved ; because many times i could bear no other clothes on but a shirt ; and it was a very great help to me that i had , among all the men 's clothes of the ship , almost three dozen of shirts .
there were also , indeed , several thick watch-coats of the seamen 's which were left , but they were too hot to wear ; and though it is true that the weather was so violently hot that there was no need of clothes , yet i could not go quite naked - no , though i had been inclined to it , which i was not - nor could i abide the thought of it , though i was alone .
the reason why i could not go naked was , i could not bear the heat of the sun so well when quite naked as with some clothes on ; nay , the very heat frequently blistered my skin : whereas , with a shirt on , the air itself made some motion , and whistling under the shirt , was twofold cooler than without it .
no more could i ever bring myself to go out in the heat of the sun without a cap or a hat ; the heat of the sun , beating with such violence as it does in that place , would give me the headache presently , by darting so directly on my head , without a cap or hat on , so that i could not bear it ; whereas , if i put on my hat it would presently go away .
upon these views i began to consider about putting the few rags i had , which i called clothes , into some order ; i had worn out all the waistcoats i had , and my business was now to try if i could not make jackets out of the great watch-coats which i had by me , and with such other materials as i had ; so i set to work , tailoring , or rather , indeed , botching , for i made most piteous work of it .
however , i made shift to make two or three new waistcoats , which i hoped would serve me a great while : as for breeches or drawers , i made but a very sorry shift indeed till afterwards .
i have mentioned that i saved the skins of all the creatures that i killed , i mean four-footed ones , and i had them hung up , stretched out with sticks in the sun , by which means some of them were so dry and hard that they were fit for little , but others were very useful .
the first thing i made of these was a great cap for my head , with the hair on the outside , to shoot off the rain ; and this i performed so well , that after i made me a suit of clothes wholly of these skins - that is to say , a waistcoat , and breeches open at the knees , and both loose , for they were rather wanting to keep me cool than to keep me warm .
i must not omit to acknowledge that they were wretchedly made ; for if i was a bad carpenter , i was a worse tailor .
however , they were such as i made very good shift with , and when i was out , if it happened to rain , the hair of my waistcoat and cap being outermost , i was kept very dry .
after this , i spent a great deal of time and pains to make an umbrella ; i was , indeed , in great want of one , and had a great mind to make one ; i had seen them made in the brazils , where they are very useful in the great heats there , and i felt the heats every jot as great here , and greater too , being nearer the equinox ; besides , as i was obliged to be much abroad , it was a most useful thing to me , as well for the rains as the heats .
i took a world of pains with it , and was a great while before i could make anything likely to hold : nay , after i had thought i had hit the way , i spoiled two or three before i made one to my mind : but at last i made one that answered indifferently well : the main difficulty i found was to make it let down .
i could make it spread , but if it did not let down too , and draw in , it was not portable for me any way but just over my head , which would not do .
however , at last , as i said , i made one to answer , and covered it with skins , the hair upwards , so that it cast off the rain like a pent-house , and kept off the sun so effectually , that i could walk out in the hottest of the weather with greater advantage than i could before in the coolest , and when i had no need of it could close it , and carry it under my arm .
thus i lived mighty comfortably , my mind being entirely composed by resigning myself to the will of god , and throwing myself wholly upon the disposal of his providence .
this made my life better than sociable , for when i began to regret the want of conversation i would ask myself , whether thus conversing mutually with my own thoughts , and ( as i hope i may say ) with even god himself , by ejaculations , was not better than the utmost enjoyment of human society in the world ?
i cannot say that after this , for five years , any extraordinary thing happened to me , but i lived on in the same course , in the same posture and place , as before ; the chief things i was employed in , besides my yearly labour of planting my barley and rice , and curing my raisins , of both which i always kept up just enough to have sufficient stock of one year 's provisions beforehand ; i say , besides this yearly labour , and my daily pursuit of going out with my gun , i had one labour , to make a canoe , which at last i finished : so that , by digging a canal to it of six feet wide and four feet deep , i brought it into the creek , almost half a mile .
as for the first , which was so vastly big , for i made it without considering beforehand , as i ought to have done , how i should be able to launch it , so , never being able to bring it into the water , or bring the water to it , i was obliged to let it lie where it was as a memorandum to teach me to be wiser the next time : indeed , the next time , though i could not get a tree proper for it , and was in a place where i could not get the water to it at any less distance than , as i have said , near half a mile , yet , as i saw it was practicable at last , i never gave it over ; and though i was near two years about it , yet i never grudged my labour , in hopes of having a boat to go off to sea at last .
however , though my little periagua was finished , yet the size of it was not at all answerable to the design which i had in view when i made the first ; i mean of venturing over to the _ terra firma _ , where it was above forty miles broad ; accordingly , the smallness of my boat assisted to put an end to that design , and now i thought no more of it .
as i had a boat , my next design was to make a cruise round the island ; for as i had been on the other side in one place , crossing , as i have already described it , over the land , so the discoveries i made in that little journey made me very eager to see other parts of the coast ; and now i had a boat , i thought of nothing but sailing round the island .
for this purpose , that i might do everything with discretion and consideration , i fitted up a little mast in my boat , and made a sail too out of some of the pieces of the ship 's sails which lay in store , and of which i had a great stock by me .
having fitted my mast and sail , and tried the boat , i found she would sail very well ; then i made little lockers or boxes at each end of my boat , to put provisions , necessaries , ammunition , & c . , into , to be kept dry , either from rain or the spray of the sea ; and a little , long , hollow place i cut in the inside of the boat , where i could lay my gun , making a flap to hang down over it to keep it dry .
i fixed my umbrella also in the step at the stern , like a mast , to stand over my head , and keep the heat of the sun off me , like an awning ; and thus i every now and then took a little voyage upon the sea , but never went far out , nor far from the little creek .
at last , being eager to view the circumference of my little kingdom , i resolved upon my cruise ; and accordingly i victualled my ship for the voyage , putting in two dozen of loaves ( cakes i should call them ) of barley-bread , an earthen pot full of parched rice ( a food i ate a good deal of ) , a little bottle of rum , half a goat , and powder and shot for killing more , and two large watch-coats , of those which , as i mentioned before , i had saved out of the seamen 's chests ; these i took , one to lie upon , and the other to cover me in the night .
it was the 6th of november , in the sixth year of my reign - or my captivity , which you please - that i set out on this voyage , and i found it much longer than i expected ; for though the island itself was not very large , yet when i came to the east side of it , i found a great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into the sea , some above water , some under it ; and beyond that a shoal of sand , lying dry half a league more , so that i was obliged to go a great way out to sea to double the point .
when i first discovered them , i was going to give over my enterprise , and come back again , not knowing how far it might oblige me to go out to sea ; and above all , doubting how i should get back again : so i came to an anchor ; for i had made a kind of an anchor with a piece of a broken grappling which i got out of the ship .
having secured my boat , i took my gun and went on shore , climbing up a hill , which seemed to overlook that point where i saw the full extent of it , and resolved to venture .
in my viewing the sea from that hill where i stood , i perceived a strong , and indeed a most furious current , which ran to the east , and even came close to the point ; and i took the more notice of it because i saw there might be some danger that when i came into it i might be carried out to sea by the strength of it , and not be able to make the island again ; and indeed , had i not got first upon this hill , i believe it would have been so ; for there was the same current on the other side the island , only that it set off at a further distance , and i saw there was a strong eddy under the shore ; so i had nothing to do but to get out of the first current , and i should presently be in an eddy .
i lay here , however , two days , because the wind blowing pretty fresh at ese . , and that being just contrary to the current , made a great breach of the sea upon the point : so that it was not safe for me to keep too close to the shore for the breach , nor to go too far off , because of the stream .
the third day , in the morning , the wind having abated overnight , the sea was calm , and i ventured : but i am a warning to all rash and ignorant pilots ; for no sooner was i come to the point , when i was not even my boat 's length from the shore , but i found myself in a great depth of water , and a current like the sluice of a mill ; it carried my boat along with it with such violence that all i could do could not keep her so much as on the edge of it ; but i found it hurried me farther and farther out from the eddy , which was on my left hand .
there was no wind stirring to help me , and all i could do with my paddles signified nothing : and now i began to give myself over for lost ; for as the current was on both sides of the island , i knew in a few leagues distance they must join again , and then i was irrecoverably gone ; nor did i see any possibility of avoiding it ; so that i had no prospect before me but of perishing , not by the sea , for that was calm enough , but of starving from hunger .
i had , indeed , found a tortoise on the shore , as big almost as i could lift , and had tossed it into the boat ; and i had a great jar of fresh water , that is to say , one of my earthen pots ; but what was all this to being driven into the vast ocean , where , to be sure , there was no shore , no mainland or island , for a thousand leagues at least ?
and now i saw how easy it was for the providence of god to make even the most miserable condition of mankind worse .
now i looked back upon my desolate , solitary island as the most pleasant place in the world and all the happiness my heart could wish for was to be but there again .
i stretched out my hands to it , with eager wishes - " o happy desert ! " said i , " i shall never see thee more .
o miserable creature ! whither am going ? "
then i reproached myself with my unthankful temper , and that i had repined at my solitary condition ; and now what would i give to be on shore there again !
thus , we never see the true state of our condition till it is illustrated to us by its contraries , nor know how to value what we enjoy , but by the want of it .
it is scarcely possible to imagine the consternation i was now in , being driven from my beloved island ( for so it appeared to me now to be ) into the wide ocean , almost two leagues , and in the utmost despair of ever recovering it again .
however , i worked hard till , indeed , my strength was almost exhausted , and kept my boat as much to the northward , that is , towards the side of the current which the eddy lay on , as possibly i could ; when about noon , as the sun passed the meridian , i thought i felt a little breeze of wind in my face , springing up from sse .
this cheered my heart a little , and especially when , in about half-an-hour more , it blew a pretty gentle gale .
by this time i had got at a frightful distance from the island , and had the least cloudy or hazy weather intervened , i had been undone another way , too ; for i had no compass on board , and should never have known how to have steered towards the island , if i had but once lost sight of it ; but the weather continuing clear , i applied myself to get up my mast again , and spread my sail , standing away to the north as much as possible , to get out of the current .
just as i had set my mast and sail , and the boat began to stretch away , i saw even by the clearness of the water some alteration of the current was near ; for where the current was so strong the water was foul ; but perceiving the water clear , i found the current abate ; and presently i found to the east , at about half a mile , a breach of the sea upon some rocks : these rocks i found caused the current to part again , and as the main stress of it ran away more southerly , leaving the rocks to the north-east , so the other returned by the repulse of the rocks , and made a strong eddy , which ran back again to the north-west , with a very sharp stream .
they who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to them upon the ladder , or to be rescued from thieves just going to murder them , or who have been in such extremities , may guess what my present surprise of joy was , and how gladly i put my boat into the stream of this eddy ; and the wind also freshening , how gladly i spread my sail to it , running cheerfully before the wind , and with a strong tide or eddy underfoot .
this eddy carried me about a league on my way back again , directly towards the island , but about two leagues more to the northward than the current which carried me away at first ; so that when i came near the island , i found myself open to the northern shore of it , that is to say , the other end of the island , opposite to that which i went out from .
when i had made something more than a league of way by the help of this current or eddy , i found it was spent , and served me no further .
however , i found that being between two great currents - viz. that on the south side , which had hurried me away , and that on the north , which lay about a league on the other side ; i say , between these two , in the wake of the island , i found the water at least still , and running no way ; and having still a breeze of wind fair for me , i kept on steering directly for the island , though not making such fresh way as i did before .
about four o 'clock in the evening , being then within a league of the island , i found the point of the rocks which occasioned this disaster stretching out , as is described before , to the southward , and casting off the current more southerly , had , of course , made another eddy to the north ; and this i found very strong , but not directly setting the way my course lay , which was due west , but almost full north .
however , having a fresh gale , i stretched across this eddy , slanting north-west ; and in about an hour came within about a mile of the shore , where , it being smooth water , i soon got to land .
when i was on shore , god i fell on my knees and gave god thanks for my deliverance , resolving to lay aside all thoughts of my deliverance by my boat ; and refreshing myself with such things as i had , i brought my boat close to the shore , in a little cove that i had spied under some trees , and laid me down to sleep , being quite spent with the labour and fatigue of the voyage .
i was now at a great loss which way to get home with my boat !
i had run so much hazard , and knew too much of the case , to think of attempting it by the way i went out ; and what might be at the other side ( i mean the west side ) i knew not , nor had i any mind to run any more ventures ; so i resolved on the next morning to make my way westward along the shore , and to see if there was no creek where i might lay up my frigate in safety , so as to have her again if i wanted her .
in about three miles or thereabouts , coasting the shore , i came to a very good inlet or bay , about a mile over , which narrowed till it came to a very little rivulet or brook , where i found a very convenient harbour for my boat , and where she lay as if she had been in a little dock made on purpose for her .
here i put in , and having stowed my boat very safe , i went on shore to look about me , and see where i was .
i soon found i had but a little passed by the place where i had been before , when i travelled on foot to that shore ; so taking nothing out of my boat but my gun and umbrella , for it was exceedingly hot , i began my march .
the way was comfortable enough after such a voyage as i had been upon , and i reached my old bower in the evening , where i found everything standing as i left it ; for i always kept it in good order , being , as i said before , my country house .
i got over the fence , and laid me down in the shade to rest my limbs , for i was very weary , and fell asleep ; but judge you , if you can , that read my story , what a surprise i must be in when i was awaked out of my sleep by a voice calling me by my name several times , " robin , robin , robin crusoe : poor robin crusoe !
where are you , robin crusoe ?
where are you ?
where have you been ? "
i was so dead asleep at first , being fatigued with rowing , or part of the day , and with walking the latter part , that i did not wake thoroughly ; but dozing thought i dreamed that somebody spoke to me ; but as the voice continued to repeat , " robin crusoe , robin crusoe , " at last i began to wake more perfectly , and was at first dreadfully frightened , and started up in the utmost consternation ; but no sooner were my eyes open , but i saw my poll sitting on the top of the hedge ; and immediately knew that it was he that spoke to me ; for just in such bemoaning language i had used to talk to him and teach him ; and he had learned it so perfectly that he would sit upon my finger , and lay his bill close to my face and cry , " poor robin crusoe !
where are you ?
where have you been ?
how came you here ? " and such things as i had taught him .
however , even though i knew it was the parrot , and that indeed it could be nobody else , it was a good while before i could compose myself .
first , i was amazed how the creature got thither ; and then , how he should just keep about the place , and nowhere else ; but as i was well satisfied it could be nobody but honest poll , i got over it ; and holding out my hand , and calling him by his name , " poll , " the sociable creature came to me , and sat upon my thumb , as he used to do , and continued talking to me , " poor robin crusoe ! and how did i come here ? and where had i been ? " just as if he had been overjoyed to see me again ; and so i carried him home along with me .
i had now had enough of rambling to sea for some time , and had enough to do for many days to sit still and reflect upon the danger i had been in .
i would have been very glad to have had my boat again on my side of the island ; but i knew not how it was practicable to get it about .
as to the east side of the island , which i had gone round , i knew well enough there was no venturing that way ; my very heart would shrink , and my very blood run chill , but to think of it ; and as to the other side of the island , i did not know how it might be there ; but supposing the current ran with the same force against the shore at the east as it passed by it on the other , i might run the same risk of being driven down the stream , and carried by the island , as i had been before of being carried away from it : so with these thoughts , i contented myself to be without any boat , though it had been the product of so many months ' labour to make it , and of so many more to get it into the sea .
in this government of my temper i remained near a year ; and lived a very sedate , retired life , as you may well suppose ; and my thoughts being very much composed as to my condition , and fully comforted in resigning myself to the dispositions of providence , i thought i lived really very happily in all things except that of society .
i improved myself in this time in all the mechanic exercises which my necessities put me upon applying myself to ; and i believe i should , upon occasion , have made a very good carpenter , especially considering how few tools i had .
besides this , i arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthenware , and contrived well enough to make them with a wheel , which i found infinitely easier and better ; because i made things round and shaped , which before were filthy things indeed to look on .
but i think i was never more vain of my own performance , or more joyful for anything i found out , than for my being able to make a tobacco-pipe ; and though it was a very ugly , clumsy thing when it was done , and only burned red , like other earthenware , yet as it was hard and firm , and would draw the smoke , i was exceedingly comforted with it , for i had been always used to smoke ; and there were pipes in the ship , but i forgot them at first , not thinking there was tobacco in the island ; and afterwards , when i searched the ship again , i could not come at any pipes .
in my wicker-ware also i improved much , and made abundance of necessary baskets , as well as my invention showed me ; though not very handsome , yet they were such as were very handy and convenient for laying things up in , or fetching things home .
for example , if i killed a goat abroad , i could hang it up in a tree , flay it , dress it , and cut it in pieces , and bring it home in a basket ; and the like by a turtle ; i could cut it up , take out the eggs and a piece or two of the flesh , which was enough for me , and bring them home in a basket , and leave the rest behind me .
also , large deep baskets were the receivers of my corn , which i always rubbed out as soon as it was dry and cured , and kept it in great baskets .
i began now to perceive my powder abated considerably ; this was a want which it was impossible for me to supply , and i began seriously to consider what i must do when i should have no more powder ; that is to say , how i should kill any goats .
i had , as is observed in the third year of my being here , kept a young kid , and bred her up tame , and i was in hopes of getting a he-goat ; but i could not by any means bring it to pass , till my kid grew an old goat ; and as i could never find in my heart to kill her , she died at last of mere age .
but being now in the eleventh year of my residence , and , as i have said , my ammunition growing low , i set myself to study some art to trap and snare the goats , to see whether i could not catch some of them alive ; and particularly i wanted a she-goat great with young .
for this purpose i made snares to hamper them ; and i do believe they were more than once taken in them ; but my tackle was not good , for i had no wire , and i always found them broken and my bait devoured .
at length i resolved to try a pitfall ; so i dug several large pits in the earth , in places where i had observed the goats used to feed , and over those pits i placed hurdles of my own making too , with a great weight upon them ; and several times i put ears of barley and dry rice without setting the trap ; and i could easily perceive that the goats had gone in and eaten up the corn , for i could see the marks of their feet .
at length i set three traps in one night , and going the next morning i found them , all standing , and yet the bait eaten and gone ; this was very discouraging .
however , i altered my traps ; and not to trouble you with particulars , going one morning to see my traps , i found in one of them a large old he-goat ; and in one of the others three kids , a male and two females .
as to the old one , i knew not what to do with him ; he was so fierce i durst not go into the pit to him ; that is to say , to bring him away alive , which was what i wanted .
i could have killed him , but that was not my business , nor would it answer my end ; so i even let him out , and he ran away as if he had been frightened out of his wits .
but i did not then know what i afterwards learned , that hunger will tame a lion .
if i had let him stay three or four days without food , and then have carried him some water to drink and then a little corn , he would have been as tame as one of the kids ; for they are mighty sagacious , tractable creatures , where they are well used .
however , for the present i let him go , knowing no better at that time : then i went to the three kids , and taking them one by one , i tied them with strings together , and with some difficulty brought them all home .
it was a good while before they would feed ; but throwing them some sweet corn , it tempted them , and they began to be tame .
and now i found that if i expected to supply myself with goats ' flesh , when i had no powder or shot left , breeding some up tame was my only way , when , perhaps , i might have them about my house like a flock of sheep .
but then it occurred to me that i must keep the tame from the wild , or else they would always run wild when they grew up ; and the only way for this was to have some enclosed piece of ground , well fenced either with hedge or pale , to keep them in so effectually , that those within might not break out , or those without break in .
this was a great undertaking for one pair of hands yet , as i saw there was an absolute necessity for doing it , my first work was to find out a proper piece of ground , where there was likely to be herbage for them to eat , water for them to drink , and cover to keep them from the sun .
those who understand such enclosures will think i had very little contrivance when i pitched upon a place very proper for all these ( being a plain , open piece of meadow land , or savannah , as our people call it in the western colonies ) , which had two or three little drills of fresh water in it , and at one end was very woody - i say , they will smile at my forecast , when i shall tell them i began by enclosing this piece of ground in such a manner that , my hedge or pale must have been at least two miles about .
nor was the madness of it so great as to the compass , for if it was ten miles about , i was like to have time enough to do it in ; but i did not consider that my goats would be as wild in so much compass as if they had had the whole island , and i should have so much room to chase them in that i should never catch them .
my hedge was begun and carried on , i believe , about fifty yards when this thought occurred to me ; so i presently stopped short , and , for the beginning , i resolved to enclose a piece of about one hundred and fifty yards in length , and one hundred yards in breadth , which , as it would maintain as many as i should have in any reasonable time , so , as my stock increased , i could add more ground to my enclosure .
this was acting with some prudence , and i went to work with courage .
i was about three months hedging in the first piece ; and , till i had done it , i tethered the three kids in the best part of it , and used them to feed as near me as possible , to make them familiar ; and very often i would go and carry them some ears of barley , or a handful of rice , and feed them out of my hand ; so that after my enclosure was finished and i let them loose , they would follow me up and down , bleating after me for a handful of corn .
this answered my end , and in about a year and a half i had a flock of about twelve goats , kids and all ; and in two years more i had three-and-forty , besides several that i took and killed for my food .
after that , i enclosed five several pieces of ground to feed them in , with little pens to drive them to take them as i wanted , and gates out of one piece of ground into another .
but this was not all ; for now i not only had goat 's flesh to feed on when i pleased , but milk too - a thing which , indeed , in the beginning , i did not so much as think of , and which , when it came into my thoughts , was really an agreeable surprise , for now i set up my dairy , and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a day .
and as nature , who gives supplies of food to every creature , dictates even naturally how to make use of it , so i , that had never milked a cow , much less a goat , or seen butter or cheese made only when i was a boy , after a great many essays and miscarriages , made both butter and cheese at last , also salt ( though i found it partly made to my hand by the heat of the sun upon some of the rocks of the sea ) , and never wanted it afterwards .
how mercifully can our creator treat his creatures , even in those conditions in which they seemed to be overwhelmed in destruction !
how can he sweeten the bitterest providences , and give us cause to praise him for dungeons and prisons !
what a table was here spread for me in the wilderness , where i saw nothing at first but to perish for hunger !
it would have made a stoic smile to have seen me and my little family sit down to dinner .
there was my majesty the prince and lord of the whole island ; i had the lives of all my subjects at my absolute command ; i could hang , draw , give liberty , and take it away , and no rebels among all my subjects .
then , to see how like a king i dined , too , all alone , attended by my servants !
poll , as if he had been my favourite , was the only person permitted to talk to me . my dog , who was now grown old and crazy , and had found no species to multiply his kind upon , sat always at my right hand ; and two cats , one on one side of the table and one on the other , expecting now and then a bit from my hand , as a mark of especial favour .
but these were not the two cats which i brought on shore at first , for they were both of them dead , and had been interred near my habitation by my own hand ; but one of them having multiplied by i know not what kind of creature , these were two which i had preserved tame ; whereas the rest ran wild in the woods , and became indeed troublesome to me at last , for they would often come into my house , and plunder me too , till at last i was obliged to shoot them , and did kill a great many ; at length they left me .
with this attendance and in this plentiful manner i lived ; neither could i be said to want anything but society ; and of that , some time after this , i was likely to have too much .
i was something impatient , as i have observed , to have the use of my boat , though very loath to run any more hazards ; and therefore sometimes i sat contriving ways to get her about the island , and at other times i sat myself down contented enough without her . but i had a strange uneasiness in my mind to go down to the point of the island where , as i have said in my last ramble , i went up the hill to see how the shore lay , and how the current set , that i might see what i had to do : this inclination increased upon me every day , and at length i resolved to travel thither by land , following the edge of the shore .
i did so ; but had any one in england met such a man as i was , it must either have frightened him , or raised a great deal of laughter ; and as i frequently stood still to look at myself , i could not but smile at the notion of my travelling through yorkshire with such an equipage , and in such a dress .
be pleased to take a sketch of my figure , as follows .
i had a great high shapeless cap , made of a goat 's skin , with a flap hanging down behind , as well to keep the sun from me as to shoot the rain off from running into my neck , nothing being so hurtful in these climates as the rain upon the flesh under the clothes .
i had a short jacket of goat 's skin , the skirts coming down to about the middle of the thighs , and a pair of open-kneed breeches of the same ; the breeches were made of the skin of an old he-goat , whose hair hung down such a length on either side that , like pantaloons , it reached to the middle of my legs ; stockings and shoes i had none , but had made me a pair of somethings , i scarce knew what to call them , like buskins , to flap over my legs , and lace on either side like spatterdashes , but of a most barbarous shape , as indeed were all the rest of my clothes .
i had on a broad belt of goat 's skin dried , which i drew together with two thongs of the same instead of buckles , and in a kind of a frog on either side of this , instead of a sword and dagger , hung a little saw and a hatchet , one on one side and one on the other .
i had another belt not so broad , and fastened in the same manner , which hung over my shoulder , and at the end of it , under my left arm , hung two pouches , both made of goat 's skin too , in one of which hung my powder , in the other my shot .
at my back i carried my basket , and on my shoulder my gun , and over my head a great clumsy , ugly , goat 's-skin umbrella , but which , after all , was the most necessary thing i had about me next to my gun .
as for my face , the colour of it was really not so mulatto-like as one might expect from a man not at all careful of it , and living within nine or ten degrees of the equinox .
my beard i had once suffered to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long ; but as i had both scissors and razors sufficient , i had cut it pretty short , except what grew on my upper lip , which i had trimmed into a large pair of mahometan whiskers , such as i had seen worn by some turks at sallee , for the moors did not wear such , though the turks did ; of these moustachios , or whiskers , i will not say they were long enough to hang my hat upon them , but they were of a length and shape monstrous enough , and such as in england would have passed for frightful .
but all this is by-the-bye ; for as to my figure , i had so few to observe me that it was of no manner of consequence , so i say no more of that .
in this kind of dress i went my new journey , and was out five or six days .
i travelled first along the sea-shore , directly to the place where i first brought my boat to an anchor to get upon the rocks ; and having no boat now to take care of , i went over the land a nearer way to the same height that i was upon before , when , looking forward to the points of the rocks which lay out , and which i was obliged to double with my boat , as is said above , i was surprised to see the sea all smooth and quiet - no rippling , no motion , no current , any more there than in other places .
i was at a strange loss to understand this , and resolved to spend some time in the observing it , to see if nothing from the sets of the tide had occasioned it ; but i was presently convinced how it was - viz. that the tide of ebb setting from the west , and joining with the current of waters from some great river on the shore , must be the occasion of this current , and that , according as the wind blew more forcibly from the west or from the north , this current came nearer or went farther from the shore ; for , waiting thereabouts till evening , i went up to the rock again , and then the tide of ebb being made , i plainly saw the current again as before , only that it ran farther off , being near half a league from the shore , whereas in my case it set close upon the shore , and hurried me and my canoe along with it , which at another time it would not have done .
this observation convinced me that i had nothing to do but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the tide , and i might very easily bring my boat about the island again ; but when i began to think of putting it in practice , i had such terror upon my spirits at the remembrance of the danger i had been in , that i could not think of it again with any patience , but , on the contrary , i took up another resolution , which was more safe , though more laborious - and this was , that i would build , or rather make , me another periagua or canoe , and so have one for one side of the island , and one for the other .
you are to understand that now i had , as i may call it , two plantations in the island - one my little fortification or tent , with the wall about it , under the rock , with the cave behind me , which by this time i had enlarged into several apartments or caves , one within another .
one of these , which was the driest and largest , and had a door out beyond my wall or fortification - that is to say , beyond where my wall joined to the rock - was all filled up with the large earthen pots of which i have given an account , and with fourteen or fifteen great baskets , which would hold five or six bushels each , where i laid up my stores of provisions , especially my corn , some in the ear , cut off short from the straw , and the other rubbed out with my hand .
as for my wall , made , as before , with long stakes or piles , those piles grew all like trees , and were by this time grown so big , and spread so very much , that there was not the least appearance , to any one 's view , of any habitation behind them .
near this dwelling of mine , but a little farther within the land , and upon lower ground , lay my two pieces of corn land , which i kept duly cultivated and sowed , and which duly yielded me their harvest in its season ; and whenever i had occasion for more corn , i had more land adjoining as fit as that .
besides this , i had my country seat , and i had now a tolerable plantation there also ; for , first , i had my little bower , as i called it , which i kept in repair - that is to say , i kept the hedge which encircled it in constantly fitted up to its usual height , the ladder standing always in the inside .
i kept the trees , which at first were no more than stakes , but were now grown very firm and tall , always cut , so that they might spread and grow thick and wild , and make the more agreeable shade , which they did effectually to my mind .
in the middle of this i had my tent always standing , being a piece of a sail spread over poles , set up for that purpose , and which never wanted any repair or renewing ; and under this i had made me a squab or couch with the skins of the creatures i had killed , and with other soft things , and a blanket laid on them , such as belonged to our sea-bedding , which i had saved ; and a great watch-coat to cover me .
and here , whenever i had occasion to be absent from my chief seat , i took up my country habitation .
adjoining to this i had my enclosures for my cattle , that is to say my goats , and i had taken an inconceivable deal of pains to fence and enclose this ground .
i was so anxious to see it kept entire , lest the goats should break through , that i never left off till , with infinite labour , i had stuck the outside of the hedge so full of small stakes , and so near to one another , that it was rather a pale than a hedge , and there was scarce room to put a hand through between them ; which afterwards , when those stakes grew , as they all did in the next rainy season , made the enclosure strong like a wall , indeed stronger than any wall .
this will testify for me that i was not idle , and that i spared no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared necessary for my comfortable support , for i considered the keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus at my hand would be a living magazine of flesh , milk , butter , and cheese for me as long as i lived in the place , if it were to be forty years ; and that keeping them in my reach depended entirely upon my perfecting my enclosures to such a degree that i might be sure of keeping them together ; which by this method , indeed , i so effectually secured , that when these little stakes began to grow , i had planted them so very thick that i was forced to pull some of them up again .
in this place also i had my grapes growing , which i principally depended on for my winter store of raisins , and which i never failed to preserve very carefully , as the best and most agreeable dainty of my whole diet ; and indeed they were not only agreeable , but medicinal , wholesome , nourishing , and refreshing to the last degree .
as this was also about half-way between my other habitation and the place where i had laid up my boat , i generally stayed and lay here in my way thither , for i used frequently to visit my boat ; and i kept all things about or belonging to her in very good order .
sometimes i went out in her to divert myself , but no more hazardous voyages would i go , scarcely ever above a stone 's cast or two from the shore , i was so apprehensive of being hurried out of my knowledge again by the currents or winds , or any other accident . but now i come to a new scene of my life .
it happened one day , about noon , going towards my boat , i was exceedingly surprised with the print of a man 's naked foot on the shore , which was very plain to be seen on the sand .
i stood like one thunderstruck , or as if i had seen an apparition .
i listened , i looked round me , but i could hear nothing , nor see anything ; i went up to a rising ground to look farther ; i went up the shore and down the shore , but it was all one ; i could see no other impression but that one .
i went to it again to see if there were any more , and to observe if it might not be my fancy ; but there was no room for that , for there was exactly the print of a foot - toes , heel , and every part of a foot .
how it came thither i knew not , nor could i in the least imagine ; but after innumerable fluttering thoughts , like a man perfectly confused and out of myself , i came home to my fortification , not feeling , as we say , the ground i went on , but terrified to the last degree , looking behind me at every two or three steps , mistaking every bush and tree , and fancying every stump at a distance to be a man .
nor is it possible to describe how many various shapes my affrighted imagination represented things to me in , how many wild ideas were found every moment in my fancy , and what strange , unaccountable whimsies came into my thoughts by the way .
when i came to my castle ( for so i think i called it ever after this ) , i fled into it like one pursued .
whether i went over by the ladder , as first contrived , or went in at the hole in the rock , which i had called a door , i cannot remember ; no , nor could i remember the next morning , for never frightened hare fled to cover , or fox to earth , with more terror of mind than i to this retreat .
i slept none that night ; the farther i was from the occasion of my fright , the greater my apprehensions were , which is something contrary to the nature of such things , and especially to the usual practice of all creatures in fear ; but i was so embarrassed with my own frightful ideas of the thing , that i formed nothing but dismal imaginations to myself , even though i was now a great way off .
sometimes i fancied it must be the devil , and reason joined in with me in this supposition , for how should any other thing in human shape come into the place ?
where was the vessel that brought them ?
what marks were there of any other footstep ? and how was it possible a man should come there ?
but then , to think that satan should take human shape upon him in such a place , where there could be no manner of occasion for it , but to leave the print of his foot behind him , and that even for no purpose too , for he could not be sure i should see it - this was an amusement the other way .
i considered that the devil might have found out abundance of other ways to have terrified me than this of the single print of a foot ; that as i lived quite on the other side of the island , he would never have been so simple as to leave a mark in a place where it was ten thousand to one whether i should ever see it or not , and in the sand too , which the first surge of the sea , upon a high wind , would have defaced entirely .
all this seemed inconsistent with the thing itself and with all the notions we usually entertain of the subtlety of the devil .
abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me out of all apprehensions of its being the devil ; and i presently concluded then that it must be some more dangerous creature - viz. that it must be some of the savages of the mainland opposite who had wandered out to sea in their canoes , and either driven by the currents or by contrary winds , had made the island , and had been on shore , but were gone away again to sea ; being as loath , perhaps , to have stayed in this desolate island as i would have been to have had them .
while these reflections were rolling in my mind , i was very thankful in my thoughts that i was so happy as not to be thereabouts at that time , or that they did not see my boat , by which they would have concluded that some inhabitants had been in the place , and perhaps have searched farther for me . then terrible thoughts racked my imagination about their having found out my boat , and that there were people here ; and that , if so , i should certainly have them come again in greater numbers and devour me ; that if it should happen that they should not find me , yet they would find my enclosure , destroy all my corn , and carry away all my flock of tame goats , and i should perish at last for mere want .
thus my fear banished all my religious hope , all that former confidence in god , which was founded upon such wonderful experience as i had had of his goodness ; as if he that had fed me by miracle hitherto could not preserve , by his power , the provision which he had made for me by his goodness .
i reproached myself with my laziness , that would not sow any more corn one year than would just serve me till the next season , as if no accident could intervene to prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon the ground ; and this i thought so just a reproof , that i resolved for the future to have two or three years ' corn beforehand ; so that , whatever might come , i might not perish for want of bread .
how strange a chequer-work of providence is the life of man ! and by what secret different springs are the affections hurried about , as different circumstances present !
to-day we love what to-morrow we hate ; to-day we seek what to-morrow we shun ; to-day we desire what to-morrow we fear , nay , even tremble at the apprehensions of .
this was exemplified in me , at this time , in the most lively manner imaginable ; for i , whose only affliction was that i seemed banished from human society , that i was alone , circumscribed by the boundless ocean , cut off from mankind , and condemned to what i call silent life ; that i was as one whom heaven thought not worthy to be numbered among the living , or to appear among the rest of his creatures ; that to have seen one of my own species would have seemed to me a raising me from death to life , and the greatest blessing that heaven itself , next to the supreme blessing of salvation , could bestow ; i say , that i should now tremble at the very apprehensions of seeing a man , and was ready to sink into the ground at but the shadow or silent appearance of a man having set his foot in the island .
such is the uneven state of human life ; and it afforded me a great many curious speculations afterwards , when i had a little recovered my first surprise . i considered that this was the station of life the infinitely wise and good providence of god had determined for me ; that as i could not foresee what the ends of divine wisdom might be in all this , so i was not to dispute his sovereignty ; who , as i was his creature , had an undoubted right , by creation , to govern and dispose of me absolutely as he thought fit ; and who , as i was a creature that had offended him , had likewise a judicial right to condemn me to what punishment he thought fit ; and that it was my part to submit to bear his indignation , because i had sinned against him .
i then reflected , that as god , who was not only righteous but omnipotent , had thought fit thus to punish and afflict me , so he was able to deliver me : that if he did not think fit to do so , it was my unquestioned duty to resign myself absolutely and entirely to his will ; and , on the other hand , it was my duty also to hope in him , pray to him , and quietly to attend to the dictates and directions of his daily providence .
these thoughts took me up many hours , days , nay , i may say weeks and months : and one particular effect of my cogitations on this occasion i cannot omit . one morning early , lying in my bed , and filled with thoughts about my danger from the appearances of savages , i found it discomposed me very much ; upon which these words of the scripture came into my thoughts , " call upon me in the day of trouble , and i will deliver thee , and thou shalt glorify me . "
upon this , rising cheerfully out of my bed , my heart was not only comforted , but i was guided and encouraged to pray earnestly to god for deliverance : when i had done praying i took up my bible , and opening it to read , the first words that presented to me were , " wait on the lord , and be of good cheer , and he shall strengthen thy heart ; wait , i say , on the lord . " it is impossible to express the comfort this gave me .
in answer , i thankfully laid down the book , and was no more sad , at least on that occasion .
in the middle of these cogitations , apprehensions , and reflections , it came into my thoughts one day that all this might be a mere chimera of my own , and that this foot might be the print of my own foot , when i came on shore from my boat : this cheered me up a little , too , and i began to persuade myself it was all a delusion ; that it was nothing else but my own foot ; and why might i not come that way from the boat , as well as i was going that way to the boat ?
again , i considered also that i could by no means tell for certain where i had trod , and where i had not ; and that if , at last , this was only the print of my own foot , i had played the part of those fools who try to make stories of spectres and apparitions , and then are frightened at them more than anybody .
now i began to take courage , and to peep abroad again , for i had not stirred out of my castle for three days and nights , so that i began to starve for provisions ; for i had little or nothing within doors but some barley-cakes and water ; then i knew that my goats wanted to be milked too , which usually was my evening diversion : and the poor creatures were in great pain and inconvenience for want of it ; and , indeed , it almost spoiled some of them , and almost dried up their milk .
encouraging myself , therefore , with the belief that this was nothing but the print of one of my own feet , and that i might be truly said to start at my own shadow , i began to go abroad again , and went to my country house to milk my flock : but to see with what fear i went forward , how often i looked behind me , how i was ready every now and then to lay down my basket and run for my life , it would have made any one have thought i was haunted with an evil conscience , or that i had been lately most terribly frightened ; and so , indeed , i had .
however , i went down thus two or three days , and having seen nothing , i began to be a little bolder , and to think there was really nothing in it but my own imagination ; but i could not persuade myself fully of this till i should go down to the shore again , and see this print of a foot , and measure it by my own , and see if there was any similitude or fitness , that i might be assured it was my own foot : but when i came to the place , first , it appeared evidently to me , that when i laid up my boat i could not possibly be on shore anywhere thereabouts ; secondly , when i came to measure the mark with my own foot , i found my foot not so large by a great deal .
both these things filled my head with new imaginations , and gave me the vapours again to the highest degree , so that i shook with cold like one in an ague ; and i went home again , filled with the belief that some man or men had been on shore there ; or , in short , that the island was inhabited , and i might be surprised before i was aware ; and what course to take for my security i knew not .
oh , what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed with fear !
it deprives them of the use of those means which reason offers for their relief .
the first thing i proposed to myself was , to throw down my enclosures , and turn all my tame cattle wild into the woods , lest the enemy should find them , and then frequent the island in prospect of the same or the like booty : then the simple thing of digging up my two corn-fields , lest they should find such a grain there , and still be prompted to frequent the island : then to demolish my bower and tent , that they might not see any vestiges of habitation , and be prompted to look farther , in order to find out the persons inhabiting .
these were the subject of the first night 's cogitations after i was come home again , while the apprehensions which had so overrun my mind were fresh upon me , and my head was full of vapours .
thus , fear of danger is ten thousand times more terrifying than danger itself , when apparent to the eyes ; and we find the burden of anxiety greater , by much , than the evil which we are anxious about : and what was worse than all this , i had not that relief in this trouble that from the resignation i used to practise i hoped to have .
i looked , i thought , like saul , who complained not only that the philistines were upon him , but that god had forsaken him ; for i did not now take due ways to compose my mind , by crying to god in my distress , and resting upon his providence , as i had done before , for my defence and deliverance ; which , if i had done , i had at least been more cheerfully supported under this new surprise , and perhaps carried through it with more resolution .
this confusion of my thoughts kept me awake all night ; but in the morning i fell asleep ; and having , by the amusement of my mind , been as it were tired , and my spirits exhausted , i slept very soundly , and waked much better composed than i had ever been before .
and now i began to think sedately ; and , upon debate with myself , i concluded that this island ( which was so exceedingly pleasant , fruitful , and no farther from the mainland than as i had seen ) was not so entirely abandoned as i might imagine ; that although there were no stated inhabitants who lived on the spot , yet that there might sometimes come boats off from the shore , who , either with design , or perhaps never but when they were driven by cross winds , might come to this place ; that i had lived there fifteen years now and had not met with the least shadow or figure of any people yet ; and that , if at any time they should be driven here , it was probable they went away again as soon as ever they could , seeing they had never thought fit to fix here upon any occasion ; that the most i could suggest any danger from was from any casual accidental landing of straggling people from the main , who , as it was likely , if they were driven hither , were here against their wills , so they made no stay here , but went off again with all possible speed ; seldom staying one night on shore , lest they should not have the help of the tides and daylight back again ; and that , therefore , i had nothing to do but to consider of some safe retreat , in case i should see any savages land upon the spot .
now , i began sorely to repent that i had dug my cave so large as to bring a door through again , which door , as i said , came out beyond where my fortification joined to the rock : upon maturely considering this , therefore , i resolved to draw me a second fortification , in the manner of a semicircle , at a distance from my wall , just where i had planted a double row of trees about twelve years before , of which i made mention : these trees having been planted so thick before , they wanted but few piles to be driven between them , that they might be thicker and stronger , and my wall would be soon finished .
so that i had now a double wall ; and my outer wall was thickened with pieces of timber , old cables , and everything i could think of , to make it strong ; having in it seven little holes , about as big as i might put my arm out at .
in the inside of this i thickened my wall to about ten feet thick with continually bringing earth out of my cave , and laying it at the foot of the wall , and walking upon it ; and through the seven holes i contrived to plant the muskets , of which i took notice that i had got seven on shore out of the ship ; these i planted like my cannon , and fitted them into frames , that held them like a carriage , so that i could fire all the seven guns in two minutes ' time ; this wall i was many a weary month in finishing , and yet never thought myself safe till it was done .
when this was done i stuck all the ground without my wall , for a great length every way , as full with stakes or sticks of the osier-like wood , which i found so apt to grow , as they could well stand ; insomuch that i believe i might set in near twenty thousand of them , leaving a pretty large space between them and my wall , that i might have room to see an enemy , and they might have no shelter from the young trees , if they attempted to approach my outer wall .
thus in two years ' time i had a thick grove ; and in five or six years ' time i had a wood before my dwelling , growing so monstrously thick and strong that it was indeed perfectly impassable : and no men , of what kind soever , could ever imagine that there was anything beyond it , much less a habitation .
as for the way which i proposed to myself to go in and out ( for i left no avenue ) , it was by setting two ladders , one to a part of the rock which was low , and then broke in , and left room to place another ladder upon that ; so when the two ladders were taken down no man living could come down to me without doing himself mischief ; and if they had come down , they were still on the outside of my outer wall .
thus i took all the measures human prudence could suggest for my own preservation ; and it will be seen at length that they were not altogether without just reason ; though i foresaw nothing at that time more than my mere fear suggested to me .
while this was doing , i was not altogether careless of my other affairs ; for i had a great concern upon me for my little herd of goats : they were not only a ready supply to me on every occasion , and began to be sufficient for me , without the expense of powder and shot , but also without the fatigue of hunting after the wild ones ; and i was loath to lose the advantage of them , and to have them all to nurse up over again .
for this purpose , after long consideration , i could think of but two ways to preserve them : one was , to find another convenient place to dig a cave underground , and to drive them into it every night ; and the other was to enclose two or three little bits of land , remote from one another , and as much concealed as i could , where i might keep about half-a-dozen young goats in each place ; so that if any disaster happened to the flock in general , i might be able to raise them again with little trouble and time : and this though it would require a good deal of time and labour , i thought was the most rational design .
accordingly , i spent some time to find out the most retired parts of the island ; and i pitched upon one , which was as private , indeed , as my heart could wish : it was a little damp piece of ground in the middle of the hollow and thick woods , where , as is observed , i almost lost myself once before , endeavouring to come back that way from the eastern part of the island .
here i found a clear piece of land , near three acres , so surrounded with woods that it was almost an enclosure by nature ; at least , it did not want near so much labour to make it so as the other piece of ground i had worked so hard at .
i immediately went to work with this piece of ground ; and in less than a month 's time i had so fenced it round that my flock , or herd , call it which you please , which were not so wild now as at first they might be supposed to be , were well enough secured in it : so , without any further delay , i removed ten young she-goats and two he-goats to this piece , and when they were there i continued to perfect the fence till i had made it as secure as the other ; which , however , i did at more leisure , and it took me up more time by a great deal .
all this labour i was at the expense of , purely from my apprehensions on account of the print of a man 's foot ; for as yet i had never seen any human creature come near the island ; and i had now lived two years under this uneasiness , which , indeed , made my life much less comfortable than it was before , as may be well imagined by any who know what it is to live in the constant snare of the fear of man .
and this i must observe , with grief , too , that the discomposure of my mind had great impression also upon the religious part of my thoughts ; for the dread and terror of falling into the hands of savages and cannibals lay so upon my spirits , that i seldom found myself in a due temper for application to my maker ; at least , not with the sedate calmness and resignation of soul which i was wont to do : i rather prayed to god as under great affliction and pressure of mind , surrounded with danger , and in expectation every night of being murdered and devoured before morning ; and i must testify , from my experience , that a temper of peace , thankfulness , love , and affection , is much the more proper frame for prayer than that of terror and discomposure : and that under the dread of mischief impending , a man is no more fit for a comforting performance of the duty of praying to god than he is for a repentance on a sick-bed ; for these discomposures affect the mind , as the others do the body ; and the discomposure of the mind must necessarily be as great a disability as that of the body , and much greater ; praying to god being properly an act of the mind , not of the body .
but to go on . after i had thus secured one part of my little living stock , i went about the whole island , searching for another private place to make such another deposit ; when , wandering more to the west point of the island than i had ever done yet , and looking out to sea , i thought i saw a boat upon the sea , at a great distance .
i had found a perspective glass or two in one of the seamen 's chests , which i saved out of our ship , but i had it not about me ; and this was so remote that i could not tell what to make of it , though i looked at it till my eyes were not able to hold to look any longer ; whether it was a boat or not i do not know , but as i descended from the hill i could see no more of it , so i gave it over ; only i resolved to go no more out without a perspective glass in my pocket .
when i was come down the hill to the end of the island , where , indeed , i had never been before , i was presently convinced that the seeing the print of a man 's foot was not such a strange thing in the island as i imagined : and but that it was a special providence that i was cast upon the side of the island where the savages never came , i should easily have known that nothing was more frequent than for the canoes from the main , when they happened to be a little too far out at sea , to shoot over to that side of the island for harbour : likewise , as they often met and fought in their canoes , the victors , having taken any prisoners , would bring them over to this shore , where , according to their dreadful customs , being all cannibals , they would kill and eat them ; of which hereafter .
when i was come down the hill to the shore , as i said above , being the sw. point of the island , i was perfectly confounded and amazed ; nor is it possible for me to express the horror of my mind at seeing the shore spread with skulls , hands , feet , and other bones of human bodies ; and particularly i observed a place where there had been a fire made , and a circle dug in the earth , like a cockpit , where i supposed the savage wretches had sat down to their human feastings upon the bodies of their fellow-creatures .
i was so astonished with the sight of these things , that i entertained no notions of any danger to myself from it for a long while : all my apprehensions were buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman , hellish brutality , and the horror of the degeneracy of human nature , which , though i had heard of it often , yet i never had so near a view of before ; in short , i turned away my face from the horrid spectacle ; my stomach grew sick , and i was just at the point of fainting , when nature discharged the disorder from my stomach ; and having vomited with uncommon violence , i was a little relieved , but could not bear to stay in the place a moment ; so i got up the hill again with all the speed i could , and walked on towards my own habitation .
when i came a little out of that part of the island i stood still awhile , as amazed , and then , recovering myself , i looked up with the utmost affection of my soul , and , with a flood of tears in my eyes , gave god thanks , that had cast my first lot in a part of the world where i was distinguished from such dreadful creatures as these ; and that , though i had esteemed my present condition very miserable , had yet given me so many comforts in it that i had still more to give thanks for than to complain of : and this , above all , that i had , even in this miserable condition , been comforted with the knowledge of himself , and the hope of his blessing : which was a felicity more than sufficiently equivalent to all the misery which i had suffered , or could suffer .
in this frame of thankfulness i went home to my castle , and began to be much easier now , as to the safety of my circumstances , than ever i was before : for i observed that these wretches never came to this island in search of what they could get ; perhaps not seeking , not wanting , or not expecting anything here ; and having often , no doubt , been up the covered , woody part of it without finding anything to their purpose .
i knew i had been here now almost eighteen years , and never saw the least footsteps of human creature there before ; and i might be eighteen years more as entirely concealed as i was now , if i did not discover myself to them , which i had no manner of occasion to do ; it being my only business to keep myself entirely concealed where i was , unless i found a better sort of creatures than cannibals to make myself known to .
yet i entertained such an abhorrence of the savage wretches that i have been speaking of , and of the wretched , inhuman custom of their devouring and eating one another up , that i continued pensive and sad , and kept close within my own circle for almost two years after this : when i say my own circle , i mean by it my three plantations - viz. my castle , my country seat ( which i called my bower ) , and my enclosure in the woods : nor did i look after this for any other use than an enclosure for my goats ; for the aversion which nature gave me to these hellish wretches was such , that i was as fearful of seeing them as of seeing the devil himself .
i did not so much as go to look after my boat all this time , but began rather to think of making another ; for i could not think of ever making any more attempts to bring the other boat round the island to me , lest i should meet with some of these creatures at sea ; in which case , if i had happened to have fallen into their hands , i knew what would have been my lot .
time , however , and the satisfaction i had that i was in no danger of being discovered by these people , began to wear off my uneasiness about them ; and i began to live just in the same composed manner as before , only with this difference , that i used more caution , and kept my eyes more about me than i did before , lest i should happen to be seen by any of them ; and particularly , i was more cautious of firing my gun , lest any of them , being on the island , should happen to hear it .
it was , therefore , a very good providence to me that i had furnished myself with a tame breed of goats , and that i had no need to hunt any more about the woods , or shoot at them ; and if i did catch any of them after this , it was by traps and snares , as i had done before ; so that for two years after this i believe i never fired my gun once off , though i never went out without it ; and what was more , as i had saved three pistols out of the ship , i always carried them out with me , or at least two of them , sticking them in my goat-skin belt .
i also furbished up one of the great cutlasses that i had out of the ship , and made me a belt to hang it on also ; so that i was now a most formidable fellow to look at when i went abroad , if you add to the former description of myself the particular of two pistols , and a broadsword hanging at my side in a belt , but without a scabbard .
things going on thus , as i have said , for some time , i seemed , excepting these cautions , to be reduced to my former calm , sedate way of living .
all these things tended to show me more and more how far my condition was from being miserable , compared to some others ; nay , to many other particulars of life which it might have pleased god to have made my lot . it put me upon reflecting how little repining there would be among mankind at any condition of life if people would rather compare their condition with those that were worse , in order to be thankful , than be always comparing them with those which are better , to assist their murmurings and complainings .
as in my present condition there were not really many things which i wanted , so indeed i thought that the frights i had been in about these savage wretches , and the concern i had been in for my own preservation , had taken off the edge of my invention , for my own conveniences ; and i had dropped a good design , which i had once bent my thoughts upon , and that was to try if i could not make some of my barley into malt , and then try to brew myself some beer .
this was really a whimsical thought , and i reproved myself often for the simplicity of it : for i presently saw there would be the want of several things necessary to the making my beer that it would be impossible for me to supply ; as , first , casks to preserve it in , which was a thing that , as i have observed already , i could never compass : no , though i spent not only many days , but weeks , nay months , in attempting it , but to no purpose .
in the next place , i had no hops to make it keep , no yeast to make it work , no copper or kettle to make it boil ; and yet with all these things wanting , i verily believe , had not the frights and terrors i was in about the savages intervened , i had undertaken it , and perhaps brought it to pass too ; for i seldom gave anything over without accomplishing it , when once i had it in my head to began it .
but my invention now ran quite another way ; for night and day i could think of nothing but how i might destroy some of the monsters in their cruel , bloody entertainment , and if possible save the victim they should bring hither to destroy .
it would take up a larger volume than this whole work is intended to be to set down all the contrivances i hatched , or rather brooded upon , in my thoughts , for the destroying these creatures , or at least frightening them so as to prevent their coming hither any more : but all this was abortive ; nothing could be possible to take effect , unless i was to be there to do it myself : and what could one man do among them , when perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of them together with their darts , or their bows and arrows , with which they could shoot as true to a mark as i could with my gun ?
sometimes i thought if digging a hole under the place where they made their fire , and putting in five or six pounds of gunpowder , which , when they kindled their fire , would consequently take fire , and blow up all that was near it : but as , in the first place , i should be unwilling to waste so much powder upon them , my store being now within the quantity of one barrel , so neither could i be sure of its going off at any certain time , when it might surprise them ; and , at best , that it would do little more than just blow the fire about their ears and fright them , but not sufficient to make them forsake the place : so i laid it aside ; and then proposed that i would place myself in ambush in some convenient place , with my three guns all double-loaded , and in the middle of their bloody ceremony let fly at them , when i should be sure to kill or wound perhaps two or three at every shot ; and then falling in upon them with my three pistols and my sword , i made no doubt but that , if there were twenty , i should kill them all .
this fancy pleased my thoughts for some weeks , and i was so full of it that i often dreamed of it , and , sometimes , that i was just going to let fly at them in my sleep .
i went so far with it in my imagination that i employed myself several days to find out proper places to put myself in ambuscade , as i said , to watch for them , and i went frequently to the place itself , which was now grown more familiar to me ; but while my mind was thus filled with thoughts of revenge and a bloody putting twenty or thirty of them to the sword , as i may call it , the horror i had at the place , and at the signals of the barbarous wretches devouring one another , abetted my malice .
well , at length i found a place in the side of the hill where i was satisfied i might securely wait till i saw any of their boats coming ; and might then , even before they would be ready to come on shore , convey myself unseen into some thickets of trees , in one of which there was a hollow large enough to conceal me entirely ; and there i might sit and observe all their bloody doings , and take my full aim at their heads , when they were so close together as that it would be next to impossible that i should miss my shot , or that i could fail wounding three or four of them at the first shot .
in this place , then , i resolved to fulfil my design ; and accordingly i prepared two muskets and my ordinary fowling-piece . the two muskets i loaded with a brace of slugs each , and four or five smaller bullets , about the size of pistol bullets ; and the fowling-piece i loaded with near a handful of swan-shot of the largest size ; i also loaded my pistols with about four bullets each ; and , in this posture , well provided with ammunition for a second and third charge , i prepared myself for my expedition .
after i had thus laid the scheme of my design , and in my imagination put it in practice , i continually made my tour every morning to the top of the hill , which was from my castle , as i called it , about three miles or more , to see if i could observe any boats upon the sea , coming near the island , or standing over towards it ; but i began to tire of this hard duty , after i had for two or three months constantly kept my watch , but came always back without any discovery ; there having not , in all that time , been the least appearance , not only on or near the shore , but on the whole ocean , so far as my eye or glass could reach every way .
as long as i kept my daily tour to the hill , to look out , so long also i kept up the vigour of my design , and my spirits seemed to be all the while in a suitable frame for so outrageous an execution as the killing twenty or thirty naked savages , for an offence which i had not at all entered into any discussion of in my thoughts , any farther than my passions were at first fired by the horror i conceived at the unnatural custom of the people of that country , who , it seems , had been suffered by providence , in his wise disposition of the world , to have no other guide than that of their own abominable and vitiated passions ; and consequently were left , and perhaps had been so for some ages , to act such horrid things , and receive such dreadful customs , as nothing but nature , entirely abandoned by heaven , and actuated by some hellish degeneracy , could have run them into .
but now , when , as i have said , i began to be weary of the fruitless excursion which i had made so long and so far every morning in vain , so my opinion of the action itself began to alter ; and i began , with cooler and calmer thoughts , to consider what i was going to engage in ; what authority or call i had to pretend to be judge and executioner upon these men as criminals , whom heaven had thought fit for so many ages to suffer unpunished to go on , and to be as it were the executioners of his judgments one upon another ; how far these people were offenders against me , and what right i had to engage in the quarrel of that blood which they shed promiscuously upon one another .
i debated this very often with myself thus : " how do i know what god himself judges in this particular case ?
it is certain these people do not commit this as a crime ; it is not against their own consciences reproving , or their light reproaching them ; they do not know it to be an offence , and then commit it in defiance of divine justice , as we do in almost all the sins we commit .
they think it no more a crime to kill a captive taken in war than we do to kill an ox ; or to eat human flesh than we do to eat mutton . "
when i considered this a little , it followed necessarily that i was certainly in the wrong ; that these people were not murderers , in the sense that i had before condemned them in my thoughts , any more than those christians were murderers who often put to death the prisoners taken in battle ; or more frequently , upon many occasions , put whole troops of men to the sword , without giving quarter , though they threw down their arms and submitted .
in the next place , it occurred to me that although the usage they gave one another was thus brutish and inhuman , yet it was really nothing to me : these people had done me no injury : that if they attempted , or i saw it necessary , for my immediate preservation , to fall upon them , something might be said for it : but that i was yet out of their power , and they really had no knowledge of me , and consequently no design upon me ; and therefore it could not be just for me to fall upon them ; that this would justify the conduct of the spaniards in all their barbarities practised in america , where they destroyed millions of these people ; who , however they were idolators and barbarians , and had several bloody and barbarous rites in their customs , such as sacrificing human bodies to their idols , were yet , as to the spaniards , very innocent people ; and that the rooting them out of the country is spoken of with the utmost abhorrence and detestation by even the spaniards themselves at this time , and by all other christian nations of europe , as a mere butchery , a bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty , unjustifiable either to god or man ; and for which the very name of a spaniard is reckoned to be frightful and terrible , to all people of humanity or of christian compassion ; as if the kingdom of spain were particularly eminent for the produce of a race of men who were without principles of tenderness , or the common bowels of pity to the miserable , which is reckoned to be a mark of generous temper in the mind .
these considerations really put me to a pause , and to a kind of a full stop ; and i began by little and little to be off my design , and to conclude i had taken wrong measures in my resolution to attack the savages ; and that it was not my business to meddle with them , unless they first attacked me ; and this it was my business , if possible , to prevent : but that , if i were discovered and attacked by them , i knew my duty .
on the other hand , i argued with myself that this really was the way not to deliver myself , but entirely to ruin and destroy myself ; for unless i was sure to kill every one that not only should be on shore at that time , but that should ever come on shore afterwards , if but one of them escaped to tell their country-people what had happened , they would come over again by thousands to revenge the death of their fellows , and i should only bring upon myself a certain destruction , which , at present , i had no manner of occasion for .
upon the whole , i concluded that i ought , neither in principle nor in policy , one way or other , to concern myself in this affair : that my business was , by all possible means to conceal myself from them , and not to leave the least sign for them to guess by that there were any living creatures upon the island - i mean of human shape .
religion joined in with this prudential resolution ; and i was convinced now , many ways , that i was perfectly out of my duty when i was laying all my bloody schemes for the destruction of innocent creatures - i mean innocent as to me .
as to the crimes they were guilty of towards one another , i had nothing to do with them ; they were national , and i ought to leave them to the justice of god , who is the governor of nations , and knows how , by national punishments , to make a just retribution for national offences , and to bring public judgments upon those who offend in a public manner , by such ways as best please him .
this appeared so clear to me now , that nothing was a greater satisfaction to me than that i had not been suffered to do a thing which i now saw so much reason to believe would have been no less a sin than that of wilful murder if i had committed it ; and i gave most humble thanks on my knees to god , that he had thus delivered me from blood-guiltiness ; beseeching him to grant me the protection of his providence , that i might not fall into the hands of the barbarians , or that i might not lay my hands upon them , unless i had a more clear call from heaven to do it , in defence of my own life .
in this disposition i continued for near a year after this ; and so far was i from desiring an occasion for falling upon these wretches , that in all that time i never once went up the hill to see whether there were any of them in sight , or to know whether any of them had been on shore there or not , that i might not be tempted to renew any of my contrivances against them , or be provoked by any advantage that might present itself to fall upon them ; only this i did : i went and removed my boat , which i had on the other side of the island , and carried it down to the east end of the whole island , where i ran it into a little cove , which i found under some high rocks , and where i knew , by reason of the currents , the savages durst not , at least would not , come with their boats upon any account whatever .
with my boat i carried away everything that i had left there belonging to her , though not necessary for the bare going thither - viz. a mast and sail which i had made for her , and a thing like an anchor , but which , indeed , could not be called either anchor or grapnel ; however , it was the best i could make of its kind : all these i removed , that there might not be the least shadow for discovery , or appearance of any boat , or of any human habitation upon the island .
besides this , i kept myself , as i said , more retired than ever , and seldom went from my cell except upon my constant employment , to milk my she-goats , and manage my little flock in the wood , which , as it was quite on the other part of the island , was out of danger ; for certain , it is that these savage people , who sometimes haunted this island , never came with any thoughts of finding anything here , and consequently never wandered off from the coast , and i doubt not but they might have been several times on shore after my apprehensions of them had made me cautious , as well as before .
indeed , i looked back with some horror upon the thoughts of what my condition would have been if i had chopped upon them and been discovered before that ; when , naked and unarmed , except with one gun , and that loaded often only with small shot , i walked everywhere , peeping and peering about the island , to see what i could get ; what a surprise should i have been in if , when i discovered the print of a man 's foot , i had , instead of that , seen fifteen or twenty savages , and found them pursuing me , and by the swiftness of their running no possibility of my escaping them !
the thoughts of this sometimes sank my very soul within me , and distressed my mind so much that i could not soon recover it , to think what i should have done , and how i should not only have been unable to resist them , but even should not have had presence of mind enough to do what i might have done ; much less what now , after so much consideration and preparation , i might be able to do .
indeed , after serious thinking of these things , i would be melancholy , and sometimes it would last a great while ; but i resolved it all at last into thankfulness to that providence which had delivered me from so many unseen dangers , and had kept me from those mischiefs which i could have no way been the agent in delivering myself from , because i had not the least notion of any such thing depending , or the least supposition of its being possible .
this renewed a contemplation which often had come into my thoughts in former times , when first i began to see the merciful dispositions of heaven , in the dangers we run through in this life ; how wonderfully we are delivered when we know nothing of it ; how , when we are in a quandary as we call it , a doubt or hesitation whether to go this way or that way , a secret hint shall direct us this way , when we intended to go that way : nay , when sense , our own inclination , and perhaps business has called us to go the other way , yet a strange impression upon the mind , from we know not what springs , and by we know not what power , shall overrule us to go this way ; and it shall afterwards appear that had we gone that way , which we should have gone , and even to our imagination ought to have gone , we should have been ruined and lost . upon these and many like reflections i afterwards made it a certain rule with me , that whenever i found those secret hints or pressings of mind to doing or not doing anything that presented , or going this way or that way , i never failed to obey the secret dictate ; though i knew no other reason for it than such a pressure or such a hint hung upon my mind .
i could give many examples of the success of this conduct in the course of my life , but more especially in the latter part of my inhabiting this unhappy island ; besides many occasions which it is very likely i might have taken notice of , if i had seen with the same eyes then that i see with now .
but it is never too late to be wise ; and i cannot but advise all considering men , whose lives are attended with such extraordinary incidents as mine , or even though not so extraordinary , not to slight such secret intimations of providence , let them come from what invisible intelligence they will .
that i shall not discuss , and perhaps cannot account for ; but certainly they are a proof of the converse of spirits , and a secret communication between those embodied and those unembodied , and such a proof as can never be withstood ; of which i shall have occasion to give some remarkable instances in the remainder of my solitary residence in this dismal place .
i believe the reader of this will not think it strange if i confess that these anxieties , these constant dangers i lived in , and the concern that was now upon me , put an end to all invention , and to all the contrivances that i had laid for my future accommodations and conveniences .
i had the care of my safety more now upon my hands than that of my food .
i cared not to drive a nail , or chop a stick of wood now , for fear the noise i might make should be heard : much less would i fire a gun for the same reason : and above all i was intolerably uneasy at making any fire , lest the smoke , which is visible at a great distance in the day , should betray me .
for this reason , i removed that part of my business which required fire , such as burning of pots and pipes , & c . , into my new apartment in the woods ; where , after i had been some time , i found , to my unspeakable consolation , a mere natural cave in the earth , which went in a vast way , and where , i daresay , no savage , had he been at the mouth of it , would be so hardy as to venture in ; nor , indeed , would any man else , but one who , like me , wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat .
the mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great rock , where , by mere accident ( i would say , if i did not see abundant reason to ascribe all such things now to providence ) , i was cutting down some thick branches of trees to make charcoal ; and before i go on i must observe the reason of my making this charcoal , which was this - i was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation , as i said before ; and yet i could not live there without baking my bread , cooking my meat , & c . ; so i contrived to burn some wood here , as i had seen done in england , under turf , till it became chark or dry coal : and then putting the fire out , i preserved the coal to carry home , and perform the other services for which fire was wanting , without danger of smoke .
but this is by-the-bye .
while i was cutting down some wood here , i perceived that , behind a very thick branch of low brushwood or underwood , there was a kind of hollow place : i was curious to look in it ; and getting with difficulty into the mouth of it , i found it was pretty large , that is to say , sufficient for me to stand upright in it , and perhaps another with me : but i must confess to you that i made more haste out than i did in , when looking farther into the place , and which was perfectly dark , i saw two broad shining eyes of some creature , whether devil or man i knew not , which twinkled like two stars ; the dim light from the cave 's mouth shining directly in , and making the reflection .
however , after some pause i recovered myself , and began to call myself a thousand fools , and to think that he that was afraid to see the devil was not fit to live twenty years in an island all alone ; and that i might well think there was nothing in this cave that was more frightful than myself .
upon this , plucking up my courage , i took up a firebrand , and in i rushed again , with the stick flaming in my hand : i had not gone three steps in before i was almost as frightened as before ; for i heard a very loud sigh , like that of a man in some pain , and it was followed by a broken noise , as of words half expressed , and then a deep sigh again .
i stepped back , and was indeed struck with such a surprise that it put me into a cold sweat , and if i had had a hat on my head , i will not answer for it that my hair might not have lifted it off .
but still plucking up my spirits as well as i could , and encouraging myself a little with considering that the power and presence of god was everywhere , and was able to protect me , i stepped forward again , and by the light of the firebrand , holding it up a little over my head , i saw lying on the ground a monstrous , frightful old he-goat , just making his will , as we say , and gasping for life , and , dying , indeed , of mere old age .
i stirred him a little to see if i could get him out , and he essayed to get up , but was not able to raise himself ; and i thought with myself he might even lie there - for if he had frightened me , so he would certainly fright any of the savages , if any of them should be so hardy as to come in there while he had any life in him .
i was now recovered from my surprise , and began to look round me , when i found the cave was but very small - that is to say , it might be about twelve feet over , but in no manner of shape , neither round nor square , no hands having ever been employed in making it but those of mere nature .
i observed also that there was a place at the farther side of it that went in further , but was so low that it required me to creep upon my hands and knees to go into it , and whither it went i knew not ; so , having no candle , i gave it over for that time , but resolved to go again the next day provided with candles and a tinder-box , which i had made of the lock of one of the muskets , with some wildfire in the pan .
accordingly , the next day i came provided with six large candles of my own making ( for i made very good candles now of goat 's tallow , but was hard set for candle-wick , using sometimes rags or rope-yarn , and sometimes the dried rind of a weed like nettles ) ; and going into this low place i was obliged to creep upon all-fours as i have said , almost ten yards - which , by the way , i thought was a venture bold enough , considering that i knew not how far it might go , nor what was beyond it .
when i had got through the strait , i found the roof rose higher up , i believe near twenty feet ; but never was such a glorious sight seen in the island , i daresay , as it was to look round the sides and roof of this vault or cave - the wall reflected a hundred thousand lights to me from my two candles .
what it was in the rock - whether diamonds or any other precious stones , or gold which i rather supposed it to be - i knew not .
the place i was in was a most delightful cavity , or grotto , though perfectly dark ; the floor was dry and level , and had a sort of a small loose gravel upon it , so that there was no nauseous or venomous creature to be seen , neither was there any damp or wet on the sides or roof .
the only difficulty in it was the entrance - which , however , as it was a place of security , and such a retreat as i wanted ; i thought was a convenience ; so that i was really rejoiced at the discovery , and resolved , without any delay , to bring some of those things which i was most anxious about to this place : particularly , i resolved to bring hither my magazine of powder , and all my spare arms - viz. two fowling-pieces - for i had three in all - and three muskets - for of them i had eight in all ; so i kept in my castle only five , which stood ready mounted like pieces of cannon on my outmost fence , and were ready also to take out upon any expedition .
upon this occasion of removing my ammunition i happened to open the barrel of powder which i took up out of the sea , and which had been wet , and i found that the water had penetrated about three or four inches into the powder on every side , which caking and growing hard , had preserved the inside like a kernel in the shell , so that i had near sixty pounds of very good powder in the centre of the cask .
this was a very agreeable discovery to me at that time ; so i carried all away thither , never keeping above two or three pounds of powder with me in my castle , for fear of a surprise of any kind ; i also carried thither all the lead i had left for bullets .
i fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants who were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks , where none could come at them ; for i persuaded myself , while i was here , that if five hundred savages were to hunt me , they could never find me out - or if they did , they would not venture to attack me here .
the old goat whom i found expiring died in the mouth of the cave the next day after i made this discovery ; and i found it much easier to dig a great hole there , and throw him in and cover him with earth , than to drag him out ; so i interred him there , to prevent offence to my nose .
i was now in the twenty-third year of my residence in this island , and was so naturalised to the place and the manner of living , that , could i but have enjoyed the certainty that no savages would come to the place to disturb me , i could have been content to have capitulated for spending the rest of my time there , even to the last moment , till i had laid me down and died , like the old goat in the cave .
i had also arrived to some little diversions and amusements , which made the time pass a great deal more pleasantly with me than it did before - first , i had taught my poll , as i noted before , to speak ; and he did it so familiarly , and talked so articulately and plain , that it was very pleasant to me ; and he lived with me no less than six-and-twenty years .
how long he might have lived afterwards i know not , though i know they have a notion in the brazils that they live a hundred years .
my dog was a pleasant and loving companion to me for no less than sixteen years of my time , and then died of mere old age .
as for my cats , they multiplied , as i have observed , to that degree that i was obliged to shoot several of them at first , to keep them from devouring me and all i had ; but at length , when the two old ones i brought with me were gone , and after some time continually driving them from me , and letting them have no provision with me , they all ran wild into the woods , except two or three favourites , which i kept tame , and whose young , when they had any , i always drowned ; and these were part of my family .
besides these i always kept two or three household kids about me , whom i taught to feed out of my hand ; and i had two more parrots , which talked pretty well , and would all call " robin crusoe , " but none like my first ; nor , indeed , did i take the pains with any of them that i had done with him .
i had also several tame sea-fowls , whose name i knew not , that i caught upon the shore , and cut their wings ; and the little stakes which i had planted before my castle-wall being now grown up to a good thick grove , these fowls all lived among these low trees , and bred there , which was very agreeable to me ; so that , as i said above , i began to be very well contented with the life i led , if i could have been secured from the dread of the savages .
but it was otherwise directed ; and it may not be amiss for all people who shall meet with my story to make this just observation from it : how frequently , in the course of our lives , the evil which in itself we seek most to shun , and which , when we are fallen into , is the most dreadful to us , is oftentimes the very means or door of our deliverance , by which alone we can be raised again from the affliction we are fallen into .
i could give many examples of this in the course of my unaccountable life ; but in nothing was it more particularly remarkable than in the circumstances of my last years of solitary residence in this island .
it was now the month of december , as i said above , in my twenty-third year ; and this , being the southern solstice ( for winter i cannot call it ) , was the particular time of my harvest , and required me to be pretty much abroad in the fields , when , going out early in the morning , even before it was thorough daylight , i was surprised with seeing a light of some fire upon the shore , at a distance from me of about two miles , toward that part of the island where i had observed some savages had been , as before , and not on the other side ; but , to my great affliction , it was on my side of the island .
i was indeed terribly surprised at the sight , and stopped short within my grove , not daring to go out , lest i might be surprised ; and yet i had no more peace within , from the apprehensions i had that if these savages , in rambling over the island , should find my corn standing or cut , or any of my works or improvements , they would immediately conclude that there were people in the place , and would then never rest till they had found me out .
in this extremity i went back directly to my castle , pulled up the ladder after me , and made all things without look as wild and natural as i could .
then i prepared myself within , putting myself in a posture of defence .
i loaded all my cannon , as i called them - that is to say , my muskets , which were mounted upon my new fortification - and all my pistols , and resolved to defend myself to the last gasp - not forgetting seriously to commend myself to the divine protection , and earnestly to pray to god to deliver me out of the hands of the barbarians .
i continued in this posture about two hours , and began to be impatient for intelligence abroad , for i had no spies to send out .
after sitting a while longer , and musing what i should do in this case , i was not able to bear sitting in ignorance longer ; so setting up my ladder to the side of the hill , where there was a flat place , as i observed before , and then pulling the ladder after me , i set it up again and mounted the top of the hill , and pulling out my perspective glass , which i had taken on purpose , i laid me down flat on my belly on the ground , and began to look for the place .
i presently found there were no less than nine naked savages sitting round a small fire they had made , not to warm them , for they had no need of that , the weather being extremely hot , but , as i supposed , to dress some of their barbarous diet of human flesh which they had brought with them , whether alive or dead i could not tell .
they had two canoes with them , which they had hauled up upon the shore ; and as it was then ebb of tide , they seemed to me to wait for the return of the flood to go away again .
it is not easy to imagine what confusion this sight put me into , especially seeing them come on my side of the island , and so near to me ; but when i considered their coming must be always with the current of the ebb , i began afterwards to be more sedate in my mind , being satisfied that i might go abroad with safety all the time of the flood of tide , if they were not on shore before ; and having made this observation , i went abroad about my harvest work with the more composure .
as i expected , so it proved ; for as soon as the tide made to the westward i saw them all take boat and row ( or paddle as we call it ) away .
i should have observed , that for an hour or more before they went off they were dancing , and i could easily discern their postures and gestures by my glass .
i could not perceive , by my nicest observation , but that they were stark naked , and had not the least covering upon them ; but whether they were men or women i could not distinguish .
as soon as i saw them shipped and gone , i took two guns upon my shoulders , and two pistols in my girdle , and my great sword by my side without a scabbard , and with all the speed i was able to make went away to the hill where i had discovered the first appearance of all ; and as soon as i get thither , which was not in less than two hours ( for i could not go quickly , being so loaded with arms as i was ) , i perceived there had been three canoes more of the savages at that place ; and looking out farther , i saw they were all at sea together , making over for the main .
this was a dreadful sight to me , especially as , going down to the shore , i could see the marks of horror which the dismal work they had been about had left behind it - viz. the blood , the bones , and part of the flesh of human bodies eaten and devoured by those wretches with merriment and sport .
i was so filled with indignation at the sight , that i now began to premeditate the destruction of the next that i saw there , let them be whom or how many soever .
it seemed evident to me that the visits which they made thus to this island were not very frequent , for it was above fifteen months before any more of them came on shore there again - that is to say , i neither saw them nor any footsteps or signals of them in all that time ; for as to the rainy seasons , then they are sure not to come abroad , at least not so far .
yet all this while i lived uncomfortably , by reason of the constant apprehensions of their coming upon me by surprise : from whence i observe , that the expectation of evil is more bitter than the suffering , especially if there is no room to shake off that expectation or those apprehensions .
during all this time i was in a murdering humour , and spent most of my hours , which should have been better employed , in contriving how to circumvent and fall upon them the very next time i should see them - especially if they should be divided , as they were the last time , into two parties ; nor did i consider at all that if i killed one party - suppose ten or a dozen - i was still the next day , or week , or month , to kill another , and so another , even _ ad infinitum _ , till i should be , at length , no less a murderer than they were in being man-eaters - and perhaps much more so .
i spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety of mind , expecting that i should one day or other fall , into the hands of these merciless creatures ; and if i did at any time venture abroad , it was not without looking around me with the greatest care and caution imaginable .
and now i found , to my great comfort , how happy it was that i had provided a tame flock or herd of goats , for i durst not upon any account fire my gun , especially near that side of the island where they usually came , lest i should alarm the savages ; and if they had fled from me now , i was sure to have them come again with perhaps two or three hundred canoes with them in a few days , and then i knew what to expect .
however , i wore out a year and three months more before i ever saw any more of the savages , and then i found them again , as i shall soon observe .
it is true they might have been there once or twice ; but either they made no stay , or at least i did not see them ; but in the month of may , as near as i could calculate , and in my four-and-twentieth year , i had a very strange encounter with them ; of which in its place .
the perturbation of my mind during this fifteen or sixteen months ' interval was very great ; i slept unquietly , dreamed always frightful dreams , and often started out of my sleep in the night .
in the day great troubles overwhelmed my mind ; and in the night i dreamed often of killing the savages and of the reasons why i might justify doing it .
but to waive all this for a while .
it was in the middle of may , on the sixteenth day , i think , as well as my poor wooden calendar would reckon , for i marked all upon the post still ; i say , it was on the sixteenth of may that it blew a very great storm of wind all day , with a great deal of lightning and thunder , and ; a very foul night it was after it .
i knew not what was the particular occasion of it , but as i was reading in the bible , and taken up with very serious thoughts about my present condition , i was surprised with the noise of a gun , as i thought , fired at sea .
this was , to be sure , a surprise quite of a different nature from any i had met with before ; for the notions this put into my thoughts were quite of another kind .
i started up in the greatest haste imaginable ; and , in a trice , clapped my ladder to the middle place of the rock , and pulled it after me ; and mounting it the second time , got to the top of the hill the very moment that a flash of fire bid me listen for a second gun , which , accordingly , in about half a minute i heard ; and by the sound , knew that it was from that part of the sea where i was driven down the current in my boat .
i immediately considered that this must be some ship in distress , and that they had some comrade , or some other ship in company , and fired these for signals of distress , and to obtain help . i had the presence of mind at that minute to think , that though i could not help them , it might be that they might help me ; so i brought together all the dry wood i could get at hand , and making a good handsome pile , i set it on fire upon the hill .
the wood was dry , and blazed freely ; and , though the wind blew very hard , yet it burned fairly out ; so that i was certain , if there was any such thing as a ship , they must needs see it . and no doubt they did ; for as soon as ever my fire blazed up , i heard another gun , and after that several others , all from the same quarter .
i plied my fire all night long , till daybreak : and when it was broad day , and the air cleared up , i saw something at a great distance at sea , full east of the island , whether a sail or a hull i could not distinguish - no , not with my glass : the distance was so great , and the weather still something hazy also ; at least , it was so out at sea .
i looked frequently at it all that day , and soon perceived that it did not move ; so i presently concluded that it was a ship at anchor ; and being eager , you may be sure , to be satisfied , i took my gun in my hand , and ran towards the south side of the island to the rocks where i had formerly been carried away by the current ; and getting up there , the weather by this time being perfectly clear , i could plainly see , to my great sorrow , the wreck of a ship , cast away in the night upon those concealed rocks which i found when i was out in my boat ; and which rocks , as they checked the violence of the stream , and made a kind of counter-stream , or eddy , were the occasion of my recovering from the most desperate , hopeless condition that ever i had been in in all my life . thus , what is one man 's safety is another man 's destruction ; for it seems these men , whoever they were , being out of their knowledge , and the rocks being wholly under water , had been driven upon them in the night , the wind blowing hard at ene .
had they seen the island , as i must necessarily suppose they did not , they must , as i thought , have endeavoured to have saved themselves on shore by the help of their boat ; but their firing off guns for help , especially when they saw , as i imagined , my fire , filled me with many thoughts .
first , i imagined that upon seeing my light they might have put themselves into their boat , and endeavoured to make the shore : but that the sea running very high , they might have been cast away . other times i imagined that they might have lost their boat before , as might be the case many ways ; particularly by the breaking of the sea upon their ship , which many times obliged men to stave , or take in pieces , their boat , and sometimes to throw it overboard with their own hands .
other times i imagined they had some other ship or ships in company , who , upon the signals of distress they made , had taken them up , and carried them off .
other times i fancied they were all gone off to sea in their boat , and being hurried away by the current that i had been formerly in , were carried out into the great ocean , where there was nothing but misery and perishing : and that , perhaps , they might by this time think of starving , and of being in a condition to eat one another .
as all these were but conjectures at best , so , in the condition i was in , i could do no more than look on upon the misery of the poor men , and pity them ; which had still this good effect upon my side , that it gave me more and more cause to give thanks to god , who had so happily and comfortably provided for me in my desolate condition ; and that of two ships ' companies , who were now cast away upon this part of the world , not one life should be spared but mine .
i learned here again to observe , that it is very rare that the providence of god casts us into any condition so low , or any misery so great , but we may see something or other to be thankful for , and may see others in worse circumstances than our own .
such certainly was the case of these men , of whom i could not so much as see room to suppose any were saved ; nothing could make it rational so much as to wish or expect that they did not all perish there , except the possibility only of their being taken up by another ship in company ; and this was but mere possibility indeed , for i saw not the least sign or appearance of any such thing .
i cannot explain , by any possible energy of words , what a strange longing i felt in my soul upon this sight , breaking out sometimes thus : " oh that there had been but one or two , nay , or but one soul saved out of this ship , to have escaped to me , that i might but have had one companion , one fellow-creature , to have spoken to me and to have conversed with ! "
in all the time of my solitary life i never felt so earnest , so strong a desire after the society of my fellow-creatures , or so deep a regret at the want of it .
there are some secret springs in the affections which , when they are set a-going by some object in view , or , though not in view , yet rendered present to the mind by the power of imagination , that motion carries out the soul , by its impetuosity , to such violent , eager embracings of the object , that the absence of it is insupportable . such were these earnest wishings that but one man had been saved .
i believe i repeated the words , " oh that it had been but one ! " a thousand times ; and my desires were so moved by it , that when i spoke the words my hands would clinch together , and my fingers would press the palms of my hands , so that if i had had any soft thing in my hand i should have crushed it involuntarily ; and the teeth in my head would strike together , and set against one another so strong , that for some time i could not part them again . let the naturalists explain these things , and the reason and manner of them .
all i can do is to describe the fact , which was even surprising to me when i found it , though i knew not from whence it proceeded ; it was doubtless the effect of ardent wishes , and of strong ideas formed in my mind , realising the comfort which the conversation of one of my fellow-christians would have been to me . but it was not to be ; either their fate or mine , or both , forbade it ; for , till the last year of my being on this island , i never knew whether any were saved out of that ship or no ; and had only the affliction , some days after , to see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore at the end of the island which was next the shipwreck .
he had no clothes on but a seaman 's waistcoat , a pair of open-kneed linen drawers , and a blue linen shirt ; but nothing to direct me so much as to guess what nation he was of .
he had nothing in his pockets but two pieces of eight and a tobacco pipe - the last was to me of ten times more value than the first .
it was now calm , and i had a great mind to venture out in my boat to this wreck , not doubting but i might find something on board that might be useful to me .
but that did not altogether press me so much as the possibility that there might be yet some living creature on board , whose life i might not only save , but might , by saving that life , comfort my own to the last degree ; and this thought clung so to my heart that i could not be quiet night or day , but i must venture out in my boat on board this wreck ; and committing the rest to god 's providence , i thought the impression was so strong upon my mind that it could not be resisted - that it must come from some invisible direction , and that i should be wanting to myself if i did not go .
under the power of this impression , i hastened back to my castle , prepared everything for my voyage , took a quantity of bread , a great pot of fresh water , a compass to steer by , a bottle of rum ( for i had still a great deal of that left ) , and a basket of raisins ; and thus , loading myself with everything necessary .
i went down to my boat , got the water out of her , got her afloat , loaded all my cargo in her , and then went home again for more .
my second cargo was a great bag of rice , the umbrella to set up over my head for a shade , another large pot of water , and about two dozen of small loaves , or barley cakes , more than before , with a bottle of goat 's milk and a cheese ; all which with great labour and sweat i carried to my boat ; and praying to god to direct my voyage , i put out , and rowing or paddling the canoe along the shore , came at last to the utmost point of the island on the north-east side .
and now i was to launch out into the ocean , and either to venture or not to venture .
i looked on the rapid currents which ran constantly on both sides of the island at a distance , and which were very terrible to me from the remembrance of the hazard i had been in before , and my heart began to fail me ; for i foresaw that if i was driven into either of those currents , i should be carried a great way out to sea , and perhaps out of my reach or sight of the island again ; and that then , as my boat was but small , if any little gale of wind should rise , i should be inevitably lost .
these thoughts so oppressed my mind that i began to give over my enterprise ; and having hauled my boat into a little creek on the shore , i stepped out , and sat down upon a rising bit of ground , very pensive and anxious , between fear and desire , about my voyage ; when , as i was musing , i could perceive that the tide was turned , and the flood come on ; upon which my going was impracticable for so many hours .
upon this , presently it occurred to me that i should go up to the highest piece of ground i could find , and observe , if i could , how the sets of the tide or currents lay when the flood came in , that i might judge whether , if i was driven one way out , i might not expect to be driven another way home , with the same rapidity of the currents .
this thought was no sooner in my head than i cast my eye upon a little hill which sufficiently overlooked the sea both ways , and from whence i had a clear view of the currents or sets of the tide , and which way i was to guide myself in my return . here i found , that as the current of ebb set out close by the south point of the island , so the current of the flood set in close by the shore of the north side ; and that i had nothing to do but to keep to the north side of the island in my return , and i should do well enough .
encouraged by this observation , i resolved the next morning to set out with the first of the tide ; and reposing myself for the night in my canoe , under the watch-coat i mentioned , i launched out .
i first made a little out to sea , full north , till i began to feel the benefit of the current , which set eastward , and which carried me at a great rate ; and yet did not so hurry me as the current on the south side had done before , so as to take from me all government of the boat ; but having a strong steerage with my paddle , i went at a great rate directly for the wreck , and in less than two hours i came up to it .
it was a dismal sight to look at ; the ship , which by its building was spanish , stuck fast , jammed in between two rocks .
all the stern and quarter of her were beaten to pieces by the sea ; and as her forecastle , which stuck in the rocks , had run on with great violence , her mainmast and foremast were brought by the board - that is to say , broken short off ; but her bowsprit was sound , and the head and bow appeared firm . when i came close to her , a dog appeared upon her , who , seeing me coming , yelped and cried ; and as soon as i called him , jumped into the sea to come to me .
i took him into the boat , but found him almost dead with hunger and thirst .
i gave him a cake of my bread , and he devoured it like a ravenous wolf that had been starving a fortnight in the snow ; i then gave the poor creature some fresh water , with which , if i would have let him , he would have burst himself .
after this i went on board ; but the first sight i met with was two men drowned in the cook-room , or forecastle of the ship , with their arms fast about one another .
i concluded , as is indeed probable , that when the ship struck , it being in a storm , the sea broke so high and so continually over her , that the men were not able to bear it , and were strangled with the constant rushing in of the water , as much as if they had been under water . besides the dog , there was nothing left in the ship that had life ; nor any goods , that i could see , but what were spoiled by the water .
there were some casks of liquor , whether wine or brandy i knew not , which lay lower in the hold , and which , the water being ebbed out , i could see ; but they were too big to meddle with .
i saw several chests , which i believe belonged to some of the seamen ; and i got two of them into the boat , without examining what was in them .
had the stern of the ship been fixed , and the forepart broken off , i am persuaded i might have made a good voyage ; for by what i found in those two chests i had room to suppose the ship had a great deal of wealth on board ; and , if i may guess from the course she steered , she must have been bound from buenos ayres , or the rio de la plata , in the south part of america , beyond the brazils to the havannah , in the gulf of mexico , and so perhaps to spain .
she had , no doubt , a great treasure in her , but of no use , at that time , to anybody ; and what became of the crew i then knew not .
i found , besides these chests , a little cask full of liquor , of about twenty gallons , which i got into my boat with much difficulty .
there were several muskets in the cabin , and a great powder-horn , with about four pounds of powder in it ; as for the muskets , i had no occasion for them , so i left them , but took the powder-horn .
i took a fire-shovel and tongs , which i wanted extremely , as also two little brass kettles , a copper pot to make chocolate , and a gridiron ; and with this cargo , and the dog , i came away , the tide beginning to make home again - and the same evening , about an hour within night , i reached the island again , weary and fatigued to the last degree .
i reposed that night in the boat and in the morning i resolved to harbour what i had got in my new cave , and not carry it home to my castle .
after refreshing myself , i got all my cargo on shore , and began to examine the particulars .
the cask of liquor i found to be a kind of rum , but not such as we had at the brazils ; and , in a word , not at all good ; but when i came to open the chests , i found several things of great use to me - for example , i found in one a fine case of bottles , of an extraordinary kind , and filled with cordial waters , fine and very good ; the bottles held about three pints each , and were tipped with silver .
i found two pots of very good succades , or sweetmeats , so fastened also on the top that the salt-water had not hurt them ; and two more of the same , which the water had spoiled .
i found some very good shirts , which were very welcome to me ; and about a dozen and a half of white linen handkerchiefs and coloured neckcloths ; the former were also very welcome , being exceedingly refreshing to wipe my face in a hot day .
besides this , when i came to the till in the chest , i found there three great bags of pieces of eight , which held about eleven hundred pieces in all ; and in one of them , wrapped up in a paper , six doubloons of gold , and some small bars or wedges of gold ; i suppose they might all weigh near a pound .
in the other chest were some clothes , but of little value ; but , by the circumstances , it must have belonged to the gunner 's mate ; though there was no powder in it , except two pounds of fine glazed powder , in three flasks , kept , i suppose , for charging their fowling-pieces on occasion .
upon the whole , i got very little by this voyage that was of any use to me ; for , as to the money , i had no manner of occasion for it ; it was to me as the dirt under my feet , and i would have given it all for three or four pair of english shoes and stockings , which were things i greatly wanted , but had had none on my feet for many years .
i had , indeed , got two pair of shoes now , which i took off the feet of two drowned men whom i saw in the wreck , and i found two pair more in one of the chests , which were very welcome to me ; but they were not like our english shoes , either for ease or service , being rather what we call pumps than shoes .
i found in this seaman 's chest about fifty pieces of eight , in rials , but no gold : i supposed this belonged to a poorer man than the other , which seemed to belong to some officer .
well , however , i lugged this money home to my cave , and laid it up , as i had done that before which i had brought from our own ship ; but it was a great pity , as i said , that the other part of this ship had not come to my share : for i am satisfied i might have loaded my canoe several times over with money ; and , thought i , if i ever escape to england , it might lie here safe enough till i come again and fetch it .
having now brought all my things on shore and secured them , i went back to my boat , and rowed or paddled her along the shore to her old harbour , where i laid her up , and made the best of my way to my old habitation , where i found everything safe and quiet .
i began now to repose myself , live after my old fashion , and take care of my family affairs ; and for a while i lived easy enough , only that i was more vigilant than i used to be , looked out oftener , and did not go abroad so much ; and if at any time i did stir with any freedom , it was always to the east part of the island , where i was pretty well satisfied the savages never came , and where i could go without so many precautions , and such a load of arms and ammunition as i always carried with me if i went the other way .
i lived in this condition near two years more ; but my unlucky head , that was always to let me know it was born to make my body miserable , was all these two years filled with projects and designs how , if it were possible , i might get away from this island : for sometimes i was for making another voyage to the wreck , though my reason told me that there was nothing left there worth the hazard of my voyage ; sometimes for a ramble one way , sometimes another - and i believe verily , if i had had the boat that i went from sallee in , i should have ventured to sea , bound anywhere , i knew not whither .
i have been , in all my circumstances , a memento to those who are touched with the general plague of mankind , whence , for aught i know , one half of their miseries flow : i mean that of not being satisfied with the station wherein god and nature hath placed them - for , not to look back upon my primitive condition , and the excellent advice of my father , the opposition to which was , as i may call it , my _ original sin _ , my subsequent mistakes of the same kind had been the means of my coming into this miserable condition ; for had that providence which so happily seated me at the brazils as a planter blessed me with confined desires , and i could have been contented to have gone on gradually , i might have been by this time - i mean in the time of my being in this island - one of the most considerable planters in the brazils - nay , i am persuaded , that by the improvements i had made in that little time i lived there , and the increase i should probably have made if i had remained , i might have been worth a hundred thousand moidores - and what business had i to leave a settled fortune , a well-stocked plantation , improving and increasing , to turn supercargo to guinea to fetch negroes , when patience and time would have so increased our stock at home , that we could have bought them at our own door from those whose business it was to fetch them ? and though it had cost us something more , yet the difference of that price was by no means worth saving at so great a hazard .
but as this is usually the fate of young heads , so reflection upon the folly of it is as commonly the exercise of more years , or of the dear-bought experience of time - so it was with me now ; and yet so deep had the mistake taken root in my temper , that i could not satisfy myself in my station , but was continually poring upon the means and possibility of my escape from this place ; and that i may , with greater pleasure to the reader , bring on the remaining part of my story , it may not be improper to give some account of my first conceptions on the subject of this foolish scheme for my escape , and how , and upon what foundation , i acted .
i am now to be supposed retired into my castle , after my late voyage to the wreck , my frigate laid up and secured under water , as usual , and my condition restored to what it was before : i had more wealth , indeed , than i had before , but was not at all the richer ; for i had no more use for it than the indians of peru had before the spaniards came there .
it was one of the nights in the rainy season in march , the four-and-twentieth year of my first setting foot in this island of solitude , i was lying in my bed or hammock , awake , very well in health , had no pain , no distemper , no uneasiness of body , nor any uneasiness of mind more than ordinary , but could by no means close my eyes , that is , so as to sleep ; no , not a wink all night long , otherwise than as follows : it is impossible to set down the innumerable crowd of thoughts that whirled through that great thoroughfare of the brain , the memory , in this night 's time .
i ran over the whole history of my life in miniature , or by abridgment , as i may call it , to my coming to this island , and also of that part of my life since i came to this island .
in my reflections upon the state of my case since i came on shore on this island , i was comparing the happy posture of my affairs in the first years of my habitation here , with the life of anxiety , fear , and care which i had lived in ever since i had seen the print of a foot in the sand .
not that i did not believe the savages had frequented the island even all the while , and might have been several hundreds of them at times on shore there ; but i had never known it , and was incapable of any apprehensions about it ; my satisfaction was perfect , though my danger was the same , and i was as happy in not knowing my danger as if i had never really been exposed to it .
this furnished my thoughts with many very profitable reflections , and particularly this one : how infinitely good that providence is , which has provided , in its government of mankind , such narrow bounds to his sight and knowledge of things ; and though he walks in the midst of so many thousand dangers , the sight of which , if discovered to him , would distract his mind and sink his spirits , he is kept serene and calm , by having the events of things hid from his eyes , and knowing nothing of the dangers which surround him .
after these thoughts had for some time entertained me , i came to reflect seriously upon the real danger i had been in for so many years in this very island , and how i had walked about in the greatest security , and with all possible tranquillity , even when perhaps nothing but the brow of a hill , a great tree , or the casual approach of night , had been between me and the worst kind of destruction - viz. that of falling into the hands of cannibals and savages , who would have seized on me with the same view as i would on a goat or turtle ; and have thought it no more crime to kill and devour me than i did of a pigeon or a curlew .
i would unjustly slander myself if i should say i was not sincerely thankful to my great preserver , to whose singular protection i acknowledged , with great humanity , all these unknown deliverances were due , and without which i must inevitably have fallen into their merciless hands .
when these thoughts were over , my head was for some time taken up in considering the nature of these wretched creatures , i mean the savages , and how it came to pass in the world that the wise governor of all things should give up any of his creatures to such inhumanity - nay , to something so much below even brutality itself - as to devour its own kind : but as this ended in some ( at that time ) fruitless speculations , it occurred to me to inquire what part of the world these wretches lived in ? how far off the coast was from whence they came ? what they ventured over so far from home for ? what kind of boats they had ? and why i might not order myself and my business so that i might be able to go over thither , as they were to come to me ?
i never so much as troubled myself to consider what i should do with myself when i went thither ; what would become of me if i fell into the hands of these savages ; or how i should escape them if they attacked me ; no , nor so much as how it was possible for me to reach the coast , and not to be attacked by some or other of them , without any possibility of delivering myself : and if i should not fall into their hands , what i should do for provision , or whither i should bend my course : none of these thoughts , i say , so much as came in my way ; but my mind was wholly bent upon the notion of my passing over in my boat to the mainland .
i looked upon my present condition as the most miserable that could possibly be ; that i was not able to throw myself into anything but death , that could be called worse ; and if i reached the shore of the main i might perhaps meet with relief , or i might coast along , as i did on the african shore , till i came to some inhabited country , and where i might find some relief ; and after all , perhaps i might fall in with some christian ship that might take me in : and if the worst came to the worst , i could but die , which would put an end to all these miseries at once .
pray note , all this was the fruit of a disturbed mind , an impatient temper , made desperate , as it were , by the long continuance of my troubles , and the disappointments i had met in the wreck i had been on board of , and where i had been so near obtaining what i so earnestly longed for - somebody to speak to , and to learn some knowledge from them of the place where i was , and of the probable means of my deliverance .
i was agitated wholly by these thoughts ; all my calm of mind , in my resignation to providence , and waiting the issue of the dispositions of heaven , seemed to be suspended ; and i had as it were no power to turn my thoughts to anything but to the project of a voyage to the main , which came upon me with such force , and such an impetuosity of desire , that it was not to be resisted .
when this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or more , with such violence that it set my very blood into a ferment , and my pulse beat as if i had been in a fever , merely with the extraordinary fervour of my mind about it , nature - as if i had been fatigued and exhausted with the very thoughts of it - threw me into a sound sleep .
one would have thought i should have dreamed of it , but i did not , nor of anything relating to it , but i dreamed that as i was going out in the morning as usual from my castle , i saw upon the shore two canoes and eleven savages coming to land , and that they brought with them another savage whom they were going to kill in order to eat him ; when , on a sudden , the savage that they were going to kill jumped away , and ran for his life ; and i thought in my sleep that he came running into my little thick grove before my fortification , to hide himself ; and that i seeing him alone , and not perceiving that the others sought him that way , showed myself to him , and smiling upon him , encouraged him : that he kneeled down to me , seeming to pray me to assist him ; upon which i showed him my ladder , made him go up , and carried him into my cave , and he became my servant ; and that as soon as i had got this man , i said to myself , " now i may certainly venture to the mainland , for this fellow will serve me as a pilot , and will tell me what to do , and whither to go for provisions , and whither not to go for fear of being devoured ; what places to venture into , and what to shun . "
i waked with this thought ; and was under such inexpressible impressions of joy at the prospect of my escape in my dream , that the disappointments which i felt upon coming to myself , and finding that it was no more than a dream , were equally extravagant the other way , and threw me into a very great dejection of spirits .
upon this , however , i made this conclusion : that my only way to go about to attempt an escape was , to endeavour to get a savage into my possession : and , if possible , it should be one of their prisoners , whom they had condemned to be eaten , and should bring hither to kill .
but these thoughts still were attended with this difficulty : that it was impossible to effect this without attacking a whole caravan of them , and killing them all ; and this was not only a very desperate attempt , and might miscarry , but , on the other hand , i had greatly scrupled the lawfulness of it to myself ; and my heart trembled at the thoughts of shedding so much blood , though it was for my deliverance .
i need not repeat the arguments which occurred to me against this , they being the same mentioned before ; but though i had other reasons to offer now - viz. that those men were enemies to my life , and would devour me if they could ; that it was self-preservation , in the highest degree , to deliver myself from this death of a life , and was acting in my own defence as much as if they were actually assaulting me , and the like ; i say though these things argued for it , yet the thoughts of shedding human blood for my deliverance were very terrible to me , and such as i could by no means reconcile myself to for a great while .
however , at last , after many secret disputes with myself , and after great perplexities about it ( for all these arguments , one way and another , struggled in my head a long time ) , the eager prevailing desire of deliverance at length mastered all the rest ; and i resolved , if possible , to get one of these savages into my hands , cost what it would .
my next thing was to contrive how to do it , and this , indeed , was very difficult to resolve on ; but as i could pitch upon no probable means for it , so i resolved to put myself upon the watch , to see them when they came on shore , and leave the rest to the event ; taking such measures as the opportunity should present , let what would be .
with these resolutions in my thoughts , i set myself upon the scout as often as possible , and indeed so often that i was heartily tired of it ; for it was above a year and a half that i waited ; and for great part of that time went out to the west end , and to the south-west corner of the island almost every day , to look for canoes , but none appeared .
this was very discouraging , and began to trouble me much , though i cannot say that it did in this case ( as it had done some time before ) wear off the edge of my desire to the thing ; but the longer it seemed to be delayed , the more eager i was for it : in a word , i was not at first so careful to shun the sight of these savages , and avoid being seen by them , as i was now eager to be upon them .
besides , i fancied myself able to manage one , nay , two or three savages , if i had them , so as to make them entirely slaves to me , to do whatever i should direct them , and to prevent their being able at any time to do me any hurt .
it was a great while that i pleased myself with this affair ; but nothing still presented itself ; all my fancies and schemes came to nothing , for no savages came near me for a great while .
about a year and a half after i entertained these notions ( and by long musing had , as it were , resolved them all into nothing , for want of an occasion to put them into execution ) , i was surprised one morning by seeing no less than five canoes all on shore together on my side the island , and the people who belonged to them all landed and out of my sight .
the number of them broke all my measures ; for seeing so many , and knowing that they always came four or six , or sometimes more in a boat , i could not tell what to think of it , or how to take my measures to attack twenty or thirty men single-handed ; so lay still in my castle , perplexed and discomforted .
however , i put myself into the same position for an attack that i had formerly provided , and was just ready for action , if anything had presented .
having waited a good while , listening to hear if they made any noise , at length , being very impatient , i set my guns at the foot of my ladder , and clambered up to the top of the hill , by my two stages , as usual ; standing so , however , that my head did not appear above the hill , so that they could not perceive me by any means .
here i observed , by the help of my perspective glass , that they were no less than thirty in number ; that they had a fire kindled , and that they had meat dressed . how they had cooked it i knew not , or what it was ; but they were all dancing , in i know not how many barbarous gestures and figures , their own way , round the fire .
while i was thus looking on them , i perceived , by my perspective , two miserable wretches dragged from the boats , where , it seems , they were laid by , and were now brought out for the slaughter .
i perceived one of them immediately fall ; being knocked down , i suppose , with a club or wooden sword , for that was their way ; and two or three others were at work immediately , cutting him open for their cookery , while the other victim was left standing by himself , till they should be ready for him .
in that very moment this poor wretch , seeing himself a little at liberty and unbound , nature inspired him with hopes of life , and he started away from them , and ran with incredible swiftness along the sands , directly towards me ; i mean towards that part of the coast where my habitation was .
i was dreadfully frightened , i must acknowledge , when i perceived him run my way ; and especially when , as i thought , i saw him pursued by the whole body : and now i expected that part of my dream was coming to pass , and that he would certainly take shelter in my grove ; but i could not depend , by any means , upon my dream , that the other savages would not pursue him thither and find him there .
however , i kept my station , and my spirits began to recover when i found that there was not above three men that followed him ; and still more was i encouraged , when i found that he outstripped them exceedingly in running , and gained ground on them ; so that , if he could but hold out for half-an-hour , i saw easily he would fairly get away from them all .
there was between them and my castle the creek , which i mentioned often in the first part of my story , where i landed my cargoes out of the ship ; and this i saw plainly he must necessarily swim over , or the poor wretch would be taken there ; but when the savage escaping came thither , he made nothing of it , though the tide was then up ; but plunging in , swam through in about thirty strokes , or thereabouts , landed , and ran with exceeding strength and swiftness .
when the three persons came to the creek , i found that two of them could swim , but the third could not , and that , standing on the other side , he looked at the others , but went no farther , and soon after went softly back again ; which , as it happened , was very well for him in the end .
i observed that the two who swam were yet more than twice as strong swimming over the creek as the fellow was that fled from them .
it came very warmly upon my thoughts , and indeed irresistibly , that now was the time to get me a servant , and , perhaps , a companion or assistant ; and that i was plainly called by providence to save this poor creature 's life .
i immediately ran down the ladders with all possible expedition , fetched my two guns , for they were both at the foot of the ladders , as i observed before , and getting up again with the same haste to the top of the hill , i crossed towards the sea ; and having a very short cut , and all down hill , placed myself in the way between the pursuers and the pursued , hallowing aloud to him that fled , who , looking back , was at first perhaps as much frightened at me as at them ; but i beckoned with my hand to him to come back ; and , in the meantime , i slowly advanced towards the two that followed ; then rushing at once upon the foremost , i knocked him down with the stock of my piece .
i was loath to fire , because i would not have the rest hear ; though , at that distance , it would not have been easily heard , and being out of sight of the smoke , too , they would not have known what to make of it .
having knocked this fellow down , the other who pursued him stopped , as if he had been frightened , and i advanced towards him : but as i came nearer , i perceived presently he had a bow and arrow , and was fitting it to shoot at me : so i was then obliged to shoot at him first , which i did , and killed him at the first shot .
the poor savage who fled , but had stopped , though he saw both his enemies fallen and killed , as he thought , yet was so frightened with the fire and noise of my piece that he stood stock still , and neither came forward nor went backward , though he seemed rather inclined still to fly than to come on .
i hallooed again to him , and made signs to come forward , which he easily understood , and came a little way ; then stopped again , and then a little farther , and stopped again ; and i could then perceive that he stood trembling , as if he had been taken prisoner , and had just been to be killed , as his two enemies were .
i beckoned to him again to come to me , and gave him all the signs of encouragement that i could think of ; and he came nearer and nearer , kneeling down every ten or twelve steps , in token of acknowledgment for saving his life .
i smiled at him , and looked pleasantly , and beckoned to him to come still nearer ; at length he came close to me ; and then he kneeled down again , kissed the ground , and laid his head upon the ground , and taking me by the foot , set my foot upon his head ; this , it seems , was in token of swearing to be my slave for ever .
i took him up and made much of him , and encouraged him all i could .
but there was more work to do yet ; for i perceived the savage whom i had knocked down was not killed , but stunned with the blow , and began to come to himself : so i pointed to him , and showed him the savage , that he was not dead ; upon this he spoke some words to me , and though i could not understand them , yet i thought they were pleasant to hear ; for they were the first sound of a man 's voice that i had heard , my own excepted , for above twenty-five years .
but there was no time for such reflections now ; the savage who was knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit up upon the ground , and i perceived that my savage began to be afraid ; but when i saw that , i presented my other piece at the man , as if i would shoot him : upon this my savage , for so i call him now , made a motion to me to lend him my sword , which hung naked in a belt by my side , which i did .
he no sooner had it , but he runs to his enemy , and at one blow cut off his head so cleverly , no executioner in germany could have done it sooner or better ; which i thought very strange for one who , i had reason to believe , never saw a sword in his life before , except their own wooden swords : however , it seems , as i learned afterwards , they make their wooden swords so sharp , so heavy , and the wood is so hard , that they will even cut off heads with them , ay , and arms , and that at one blow , too .
when he had done this , he comes laughing to me in sign of triumph , and brought me the sword again , and with abundance of gestures which i did not understand , laid it down , with the head of the savage that he had killed , just before me .
but that which astonished him most was to know how i killed the other indian so far off ; so , pointing to him , he made signs to me to let him go to him ; and i bade him go , as well as i could .
when he came to him , he stood like one amazed , looking at him , turning him first on one side , then on the other ; looked at the wound the bullet had made , which it seems was just in his breast , where it had made a hole , and no great quantity of blood had followed ; but he had bled inwardly , for he was quite dead .
he took up his bow and arrows , and came back ; so i turned to go away , and beckoned him to follow me , making signs to him that more might come after them .
upon this he made signs to me that he should bury them with sand , that they might not be seen by the rest , if they followed ; and so i made signs to him again to do so .
he fell to work ; and in an instant he had scraped a hole in the sand with his hands big enough to bury the first in , and then dragged him into it , and covered him ; and did so by the other also ; i believe he had him buried them both in a quarter of an hour .
then , calling away , i carried him , not to my castle , but quite away to my cave , on the farther part of the island : so i did not let my dream come to pass in that part , that he came into my grove for shelter .
here i gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat , and a draught of water , which i found he was indeed in great distress for , from his running : and having refreshed him , i made signs for him to go and lie down to sleep , showing him a place where i had laid some rice-straw , and a blanket upon it , which i used to sleep upon myself sometimes ; so the poor creature lay down , and went to sleep .
he was a comely , handsome fellow , perfectly well made , with straight , strong limbs , not too large ; tall , and well-shaped ; and , as i reckon , about twenty-six years of age .
he had a very good countenance , not a fierce and surly aspect , but seemed to have something very manly in his face ; and yet he had all the sweetness and softness of a european in his countenance , too , especially when he smiled .
his hair was long and black , not curled like wool ; his forehead very high and large ; and a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes .
the colour of his skin was not quite black , but very tawny ; and yet not an ugly , yellow , nauseous tawny , as the brazilians and virginians , and other natives of america are , but of a bright kind of a dun olive-colour , that had in it something very agreeable , though not very easy to describe .
his face was round and plump ; his nose small , not flat , like the negroes ; a very good mouth , thin lips , and his fine teeth well set , and as white as ivory .
after he had slumbered , rather than slept , about half-an-hour , he awoke again , and came out of the cave to me : for i had been milking my goats which i had in the enclosure just by : when he espied me he came running to me , laying himself down again upon the ground , with all the possible signs of an humble , thankful disposition , making a great many antic gestures to show it .
at last he lays his head flat upon the ground , close to my foot , and sets my other foot upon his head , as he had done before ; and after this made all the signs to me of subjection , servitude , and submission imaginable , to let me know how he would serve me so long as he lived .
i understood him in many things , and let him know i was very well pleased with him .
in a little time i began to speak to him ; and teach him to speak to me : and first , i let him know his name should be friday , which was the day i saved his life : i called him so for the memory of the time .
i likewise taught him to say master ; and then let him know that was to be my name : i likewise taught him to say yes and no and to know the meaning of them . i gave him some milk in an earthen pot , and let him see me drink it before him , and sop my bread in it ; and gave him a cake of bread to do the like , which he quickly complied with , and made signs that it was very good for him .
i kept there with him all that night ; but as soon as it was day i beckoned to him to come with me , and let him know i would give him some clothes ; at which he seemed very glad , for he was stark naked .
as we went by the place where he had buried the two men , he pointed exactly to the place , and showed me the marks that he had made to find them again , making signs to me that we should dig them up again and eat them .
at this i appeared very angry , expressed my abhorrence of it , made as if i would vomit at the thoughts of it , and beckoned with my hand to him to come away , which he did immediately , with great submission .
i then led him up to the top of the hill , to see if his enemies were gone ; and pulling out my glass i looked , and saw plainly the place where they had been , but no appearance of them or their canoes ; so that it was plain they were gone , and had left their two comrades behind them , without any search after them .
but i was not content with this discovery ; but having now more courage , and consequently more curiosity , i took my man friday with me , giving him the sword in his hand , with the bow and arrows at his back , which i found he could use very dexterously , making him carry one gun for me , and i two for myself ; and away we marched to the place where these creatures had been ; for i had a mind now to get some further intelligence of them .
when i came to the place my very blood ran chill in my veins , and my heart sunk within me , at the horror of the spectacle ; indeed , it was a dreadful sight , at least it was so to me , though friday made nothing of it .
the place was covered with human bones , the ground dyed with their blood , and great pieces of flesh left here and there , half-eaten , mangled , and scorched ; and , in short , all the tokens of the triumphant feast they had been making there , after a victory over their enemies .
i saw three skulls , five hands , and the bones of three or four legs and feet , and abundance of other parts of the bodies ; and friday , by his signs , made me understand that they brought over four prisoners to feast upon ; that three of them were eaten up , and that he , pointing to himself , was the fourth ; that there had been a great battle between them and their next king , of whose subjects , it seems , he had been one , and that they had taken a great number of prisoners ; all which were carried to several places by those who had taken them in the fight , in order to feast upon them , as was done here by these wretches upon those they brought hither .
i caused friday to gather all the skulls , bones , flesh , and whatever remained , and lay them together in a heap , and make a great fire upon it , and burn them all to ashes .
i found friday had still a hankering stomach after some of the flesh , and was still a cannibal in his nature ; but i showed so much abhorrence at the very thoughts of it , and at the least appearance of it , that he durst not discover it : for i had , by some means , let him know that i would kill him if he offered it .
when he had done this , we came back to our castle ; and there i fell to work for my man friday ; and first of all , i gave him a pair of linen drawers , which i had out of the poor gunner 's chest i mentioned , which i found in the wreck , and which , with a little alteration , fitted him very well ; and then i made him a jerkin of goat 's skin , as well as my skill would allow ( for i was now grown a tolerably good tailor ) ; and i gave him a cap which i made of hare 's skin , very convenient , and fashionable enough ; and thus he was clothed , for the present , tolerably well , and was mighty well pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as his master .
it is true he went awkwardly in these clothes at first : wearing the drawers was very awkward to him , and the sleeves of the waistcoat galled his shoulders and the inside of his arms ; but a little easing them where he complained they hurt him , and using himself to them , he took to them at length very well .
the next day , after i came home to my hutch with him , i began to consider where i should lodge him : and that i might do well for him and yet be perfectly easy myself , i made a little tent for him in the vacant place between my two fortifications , in the inside of the last , and in the outside of the first .
as there was a door or entrance there into my cave , i made a formal framed door-case , and a door to it , of boards , and set it up in the passage , a little within the entrance ; and , causing the door to open in the inside , i barred it up in the night , taking in my ladders , too ; so that friday could no way come at me in the inside of my innermost wall , without making so much noise in getting over that it must needs awaken me ; for my first wall had now a complete roof over it of long poles , covering all my tent , and leaning up to the side of the hill ; which was again laid across with smaller sticks , instead of laths , and then thatched over a great thickness with the rice-straw , which was strong , like reeds ; and at the hole or place which was left to go in or out by the ladder i had placed a kind of trap-door , which , if it had been attempted on the outside , would not have opened at all , but would have fallen down and made a great noise - as to weapons , i took them all into my side every night .
but i needed none of all this precaution ; for never man had a more faithful , loving , sincere servant than friday was to me : without passions , sullenness , or designs , perfectly obliged and engaged ; his very affections were tied to me , like those of a child to a father ; and i daresay he would have sacrificed his life to save mine upon any occasion whatsoever - the many testimonies he gave me of this put it out of doubt , and soon convinced me that i needed to use no precautions for my safety on his account .
this frequently gave me occasion to observe , and that with wonder , that however it had pleased god in his providence , and in the government of the works of his hands , to take from so great a part of the world of his creatures the best uses to which their faculties and the powers of their souls are adapted , yet that he has bestowed upon them the same powers , the same reason , the same affections , the same sentiments of kindness and obligation , the same passions and resentments of wrongs , the same sense of gratitude , sincerity , fidelity , and all the capacities of doing good and receiving good that he has given to us ; and that when he pleases to offer them occasions of exerting these , they are as ready , nay , more ready , to apply them to the right uses for which they were bestowed than we are .
this made me very melancholy sometimes , in reflecting , as the several occasions presented , how mean a use we make of all these , even though we have these powers enlightened by the great lamp of instruction , the spirit of god , and by the knowledge of his word added to our understanding ; and why it has pleased god to hide the like saving knowledge from so many millions of souls , who , if i might judge by this poor savage , would make a much better use of it than we did .
from hence i sometimes was led too far , to invade the sovereignty of providence , and , as it were , arraign the justice of so arbitrary a disposition of things , that should hide that sight from some , and reveal it to others , and yet expect a like duty from both ; but i shut it up , and checked my thoughts with this conclusion : first , that we did not know by what light and law these should be condemned ; but that as god was necessarily , and by the nature of his being , infinitely holy and just , so it could not be , but if these creatures were all sentenced to absence from himself , it was on account of sinning against that light which , as the scripture says , was a law to themselves , and by such rules as their consciences would acknowledge to be just , though the foundation was not discovered to us ; and secondly , that still as we all are the clay in the hand of the potter , no vessel could say to him , " why hast thou formed me thus ? "
but to return to my new companion .
i was greatly delighted with him , and made it my business to teach him everything that was proper to make him useful , handy , and helpful ; but especially to make him speak , and understand me when i spoke ; and he was the aptest scholar that ever was ; and particularly was so merry , so constantly diligent , and so pleased when he could but understand me , or make me understand him , that it was very pleasant for me to talk to him .
now my life began to be so easy that i began to say to myself that could i but have been safe from more savages , i cared not if i was never to remove from the place where i lived .
after i had been two or three days returned to my castle , i thought that , in order to bring friday off from his horrid way of feeding , and from the relish of a cannibal 's stomach , i ought to let him taste other flesh ; so i took him out with me one morning to the woods .
i went , indeed , intending to kill a kid out of my own flock ; and bring it home and dress it ; but as i was going i saw a she-goat lying down in the shade , and two young kids sitting by her .
i catched hold of friday .
" hold , " said i , " stand still ; " and made signs to him not to stir : immediately i presented my piece , shot , and killed one of the kids .
the poor creature , who had at a distance , indeed , seen me kill the savage , his enemy , but did not know , nor could imagine how it was done , was sensibly surprised , trembled , and shook , and looked so amazed that i thought he would have sunk down .
he did not see the kid i shot at , or perceive i had killed it , but ripped up his waistcoat to feel whether he was not wounded ; and , as i found presently , thought i was resolved to kill him : for he came and kneeled down to me , and embracing my knees , said a great many things i did not understand ; but i could easily see the meaning was to pray me not to kill him .
i soon found a way to convince him that i would do him no harm ; and taking him up by the hand , laughed at him , and pointing to the kid which i had killed , beckoned to him to run and fetch it , which he did : and while he was wondering , and looking to see how the creature was killed , i loaded my gun again .
by-and-by i saw a great fowl , like a hawk , sitting upon a tree within shot ; so , to let friday understand a little what i would do , i called him to me again , pointed at the fowl , which was indeed a parrot , though i thought it had been a hawk ; i say , pointing to the parrot , and to my gun , and to the ground under the parrot , to let him see i would make it fall , i made him understand that i would shoot and kill that bird ; accordingly , i fired , and bade him look , and immediately he saw the parrot fall .
he stood like one frightened again , notwithstanding all i had said to him ; and i found he was the more amazed , because he did not see me put anything into the gun , but thought that there must be some wonderful fund of death and destruction in that thing , able to kill man , beast , bird , or anything near or far off ; and the astonishment this created in him was such as could not wear off for a long time ; and i believe , if i would have let him , he would have worshipped me and my gun .
as for the gun itself , he would not so much as touch it for several days after ; but he would speak to it and talk to it , as if it had answered him , when he was by himself ; which , as i afterwards learned of him , was to desire it not to kill him .
well , after his astonishment was a little over at this , i pointed to him to run and fetch the bird i had shot , which he did , but stayed some time ; for the parrot , not being quite dead , had fluttered away a good distance from the place where she fell : however , he found her , took her up , and brought her to me ; and as i had perceived his ignorance about the gun before , i took this advantage to charge the gun again , and not to let him see me do it , that i might be ready for any other mark that might present ; but nothing more offered at that time : so i brought home the kid , and the same evening i took the skin off , and cut it out as well as i could ; and having a pot fit for that purpose , i boiled or stewed some of the flesh , and made some very good broth .
after i had begun to eat some i gave some to my man , who seemed very glad of it , and liked it very well ; but that which was strangest to him was to see me eat salt with it .
he made a sign to me that the salt was not good to eat ; and putting a little into his own mouth , he seemed to nauseate it , and would spit and sputter at it , washing his mouth with fresh water after it : on the other hand , i took some meat into my mouth without salt , and i pretended to spit and sputter for want of salt , as much as he had done at the salt ; but it would not do ; he would never care for salt with meat or in his broth ; at least , not for a great while , and then but a very little .
having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth , i was resolved to feast him the next day by roasting a piece of the kid : this i did by hanging it before the fire on a string , as i had seen many people do in england , setting two poles up , one on each side of the fire , and one across the top , and tying the string to the cross stick , letting the meat turn continually .
this friday admired very much ; but when he came to taste the flesh , he took so many ways to tell me how well he liked it , that i could not but understand him : and at last he told me , as well as he could , he would never eat man 's flesh any more , which i was very glad to hear .
the next day i set him to work beating some corn out , and sifting it in the manner i used to do , as i observed before ; and he soon understood how to do it as well as i , especially after he had seen what the meaning of it was , and that it was to make bread of ; for after that i let him see me make my bread , and bake it too ; and in a little time friday was able to do all the work for me as well as i could do it myself .
i began now to consider , that having two mouths to feed instead of one , i must provide more ground for my harvest , and plant a larger quantity of corn than i used to do ; so i marked out a larger piece of land , and began the fence in the same manner as before , in which friday worked not only very willingly and very hard , but did it very cheerfully : and i told him what it was for ; that it was for corn to make more bread , because he was now with me , and that i might have enough for him and myself too .
he appeared very sensible of that part , and let me know that he thought i had much more labour upon me on his account than i had for myself ; and that he would work the harder for me if i would tell him what to do .
this was the pleasantest year of all the life i led in this place .
friday began to talk pretty well , and understand the names of almost everything i had occasion to call for , and of every place i had to send him to , and talked a great deal to me ; so that , in short , i began now to have some use for my tongue again , which , indeed , i had very little occasion for before .
besides the pleasure of talking to him , i had a singular satisfaction in the fellow himself : his simple , unfeigned honesty appeared to me more and more every day , and i began really to love the creature ; and on his side i believe he loved me more than it was possible for him ever to love anything before .
i had a mind once to try if he had any inclination for his own country again ; and having taught him english so well that he could answer me almost any question , i asked him whether the nation that he belonged to never conquered in battle ?
at which he smiled , and said - " yes , yes , we always fight the better ; " that is , he meant always get the better in fight ; and so we began the following discourse : -
_ master _ . - you always fight the better ; how came you to be taken prisoner , then , friday ?
_ friday _ . - my nation beat much for all that .
_ master _ . - how beat ? if your nation beat them , how came you to be taken ?
_ friday _ . - they more many than my nation , in the place where me was ; they take one , two , three , and me : my nation over-beat them in the yonder place , where me no was ; there my nation take one , two , great thousand .
_ master _ . - but why did not your side recover you from the hands of your enemies , then ?
_ friday _ . - they run , one , two , three , and me , and make go in the canoe ; my nation have no canoe that time .
_ master _ . - well , friday , and what does your nation do with the men they take ? do they carry them away and eat them , as these did ?
_ friday _ . - yes , my nation eat mans too ; eat all up .
_ master _ . - where do they carry them ?
_ friday _ . - go to other place , where they think .
_ master _ . - do they come hither ?
_ friday _ . - yes , yes , they come hither ; come other else place .
_ master _ . - have you been here with them ?
_ friday _ . - yes , i have been here ( points to the nw. side of the island , which , it seems , was their side ) .
by this i understood that my man friday had formerly been among the savages who used to come on shore on the farther part of the island , on the same man-eating occasions he was now brought for ; and some time after , when i took the courage to carry him to that side , being the same i formerly mentioned , he presently knew the place , and told me he was there once , when they ate up twenty men , two women , and one child ; he could not tell twenty in english , but he numbered them by laying so many stones in a row , and pointing to me to tell them over .
i have told this passage , because it introduces what follows : that after this discourse i had with him , i asked him how far it was from our island to the shore , and whether the canoes were not often lost .
he told me there was no danger , no canoes ever lost : but that after a little way out to sea , there was a current and wind , always one way in the morning , the other in the afternoon .
this i understood to be no more than the sets of the tide , as going out or coming in ; but i afterwards understood it was occasioned by the great draft and reflux of the mighty river orinoco , in the mouth or gulf of which river , as i found afterwards , our island lay ; and that this land , which i perceived to be w. and nw . , was the great island trinidad , on the north point of the mouth of the river .
i asked friday a thousand questions about the country , the inhabitants , the sea , the coast , and what nations were near ; he told me all he knew with the greatest openness imaginable .
i asked him the names of the several nations of his sort of people , but could get no other name than caribs ; from whence i easily understood that these were the caribbees , which our maps place on the part of america which reaches from the mouth of the river orinoco to guiana , and onwards to st. martha .
he told me that up a great way beyond the moon , that was beyond the setting of the moon , which must be west from their country , there dwelt white bearded men , like me , and pointed to my great whiskers , which i mentioned before ; and that they had killed much mans , that was his word : by all which i understood he meant the spaniards , whose cruelties in america had been spread over the whole country , and were remembered by all the nations from father to son .
i inquired if he could tell me how i might go from this island , and get among those white men .
he told me , " yes , yes , you may go in two canoe . " i could not understand what he meant , or make him describe to me what he meant by two canoe , till at last , with great difficulty , i found he meant it must be in a large boat , as big as two canoes .
this part of friday 's discourse i began to relish very well ; and from this time i entertained some hopes that , one time or other , i might find an opportunity to make my escape from this place , and that this poor savage might be a means to help me .
during the long time that friday had now been with me , and that he began to speak to me , and understand me , i was not wanting to lay a foundation of religious knowledge in his mind ; particularly i asked him one time , who made him .
the creature did not understand me at all , but thought i had asked who was his father - but i took it up by another handle , and asked him who made the sea , the ground we walked on , and the hills and woods .
he told me , " it was one benamuckee , that lived beyond all ; " he could describe nothing of this great person , but that he was very old , " much older , " he said , " than the sea or land , than the moon or the stars . "
i asked him then , if this old person had made all things , why did not all things worship him ?
he looked very grave , and , with a perfect look of innocence , said , " all things say o to him . " i asked him if the people who die in his country went away anywhere ?
he said , " yes ; they all went to benamuckee . " then i asked him whether those they eat up went thither too .
he said , " yes . "
from these things , i began to instruct him in the knowledge of the true god ; i told him that the great maker of all things lived up there , pointing up towards heaven ; that he governed the world by the same power and providence by which he made it ; that he was omnipotent , and could do everything for us , give everything to us , take everything from us ; and thus , by degrees , i opened his eyes .
he listened with great attention , and received with pleasure the notion of jesus christ being sent to redeem us ; and of the manner of making our prayers to god , and his being able to hear us , even in heaven .
he told me one day , that if our god could hear us , up beyond the sun , he must needs be a greater god than their benamuckee , who lived but a little way off , and yet could not hear till they went up to the great mountains where he dwelt to speak to them .
i asked him if ever he went thither to speak to him .
he said , " no ; they never went that were young men ; none went thither but the old men , " whom he called their oowokakee ; that is , as i made him explain to me , their religious , or clergy ; and that they went to say o ( so he called saying prayers ) , and then came back and told them what benamuckee said .
by this i observed , that there is priestcraft even among the most blinded , ignorant pagans in the world ; and the policy of making a secret of religion , in order to preserve the veneration of the people to the clergy , not only to be found in the roman , but , perhaps , among all religions in the world , even among the most brutish and barbarous savages .
i endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man friday ; and told him that the pretence of their old men going up to the mountains to say o to their god benamuckee was a cheat ; and their bringing word from thence what he said was much more so ; that if they met with any answer , or spake with any one there , it must be with an evil spirit ; and then i entered into a long discourse with him about the devil , the origin of him , his rebellion against god , his enmity to man , the reason of it , his setting himself up in the dark parts of the world to be worshipped instead of god , and as god , and the many stratagems he made use of to delude mankind to their ruin ; how he had a secret access to our passions and to our affections , and to adapt his snares to our inclinations , so as to cause us even to be our own tempters , and run upon our destruction by our own choice .
i found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in his mind about the devil as it was about the being of a god .
nature assisted all my arguments to evidence to him even the necessity of a great first cause , an overruling , governing power , a secret directing providence , and of the equity and justice of paying homage to him that made us , and the like ; but there appeared nothing of this kind in the notion of an evil spirit , of his origin , his being , his nature , and above all , of his inclination to do evil , and to draw us in to do so too ; and the poor creature puzzled me once in such a manner , by a question merely natural and innocent , that i scarce knew what to say to him . i had been talking a great deal to him of the power of god , his omnipotence , his aversion to sin , his being a consuming fire to the workers of iniquity ; how , as he had made us all , he could destroy us and all the world in a moment ; and he listened with great seriousness to me all the while .
after this i had been telling him how the devil was god 's enemy in the hearts of men , and used all his malice and skill to defeat the good designs of providence , and to ruin the kingdom of christ in the world , and the like . " well , " says friday , " but you say god is so strong , so great ; is he not much strong , much might as the devil ? "
" yes , yes , " says i , " friday ; god is stronger than the devil - god is above the devil , and therefore we pray to god to tread him down under our feet , and enable us to resist his temptations and quench his fiery darts . " " but , " says he again , " if god much stronger , much might as the wicked devil , why god no kill the devil , so make him no more do wicked ? "
i was strangely surprised at this question ; and , after all , though i was now an old man , yet i was but a young doctor , and ill qualified for a casuist or a solver of difficulties ; and at first i could not tell what to say ; so i pretended not to hear him , and asked him what he said ; but he was too earnest for an answer to forget his question , so that he repeated it in the very same broken words as above .
by this time i had recovered myself a little , and i said , " god will at last punish him severely ; he is reserved for the judgment , and is to be cast into the bottomless pit , to dwell with everlasting fire . "
this did not satisfy friday ; but he returns upon me , repeating my words , " ' _ reserve at last _ ! ' me no understand - but why not kill the devil now ; not kill great ago ? "
" you may as well ask me , " said i , " why god does not kill you or me , when we do wicked things here that offend him - we are preserved to repent and be pardoned . "
he mused some time on this .
" well , well , " says he , mighty affectionately , " that well - so you , i , devil , all wicked , all preserve , repent , god pardon all . " here i was run down again by him to the last degree ; and it was a testimony to me , how the mere notions of nature , though they will guide reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a god , and of a worship or homage due to the supreme being of god , as the consequence of our nature , yet nothing but divine revelation can form the knowledge of jesus christ , and of redemption purchased for us ; of a mediator of the new covenant , and of an intercessor at the footstool of god 's throne ; i say , nothing but a revelation from heaven can form these in the soul ; and that , therefore , the gospel of our lord and saviour jesus christ , i mean the word of god , and the spirit of god , promised for the guide and sanctifier of his people , are the absolutely necessary instructors of the souls of men in the saving knowledge of god and the means of salvation .
i therefore diverted the present discourse between me and my man , rising up hastily , as upon some sudden occasion of going out ; then sending him for something a good way off , i seriously prayed to god that he would enable me to instruct savingly this poor savage ; assisting , by his spirit , the heart of the poor ignorant creature to receive the light of the knowledge of god in christ , reconciling him to himself , and would guide me so to speak to him from the word of god that his conscience might be convinced , his eyes opened , and his soul saved . when he came again to me , i entered into a long discourse with him upon the subject of the redemption of man by the saviour of the world , and of the doctrine of the gospel preached from heaven , viz. of repentance towards god , and faith in our blessed lord jesus .
i then explained to him as well as i could why our blessed redeemer took not on him the nature of angels but the seed of abraham ; and how , for that reason , the fallen angels had no share in the redemption ; that he came only to the lost sheep of the house of israel , and the like .
i had , god knows , more sincerity than knowledge in all the methods i took for this poor creature 's instruction , and must acknowledge , what i believe all that act upon the same principle will find , that in laying things open to him , i really informed and instructed myself in many things that either i did not know or had not fully considered before , but which occurred naturally to my mind upon searching into them , for the information of this poor savage ; and i had more affection in my inquiry after things upon this occasion than ever i felt before : so that , whether this poor wild wretch was better for me or no , i had great reason to be thankful that ever he came to me ; my grief sat lighter , upon me ; my habitation grew comfortable to me beyond measure : and when i reflected that in this solitary life which i have been confined to , i had not only been moved to look up to heaven myself , and to seek the hand that had brought me here , but was now to be made an instrument , under providence , to save the life , and , for aught i knew , the soul of a poor savage , and bring him to the true knowledge of religion and of the christian doctrine , that he might know christ jesus , in whom is life eternal ; i say , when i reflected upon all these things , a secret joy ran through every part of my soul , and i frequently rejoiced that ever i was brought to this place , which i had so often thought the most dreadful of all afflictions that could possibly have befallen me .
i continued in this thankful frame all the remainder of my time ; and the conversation which employed the hours between friday and me was such as made the three years which we lived there together perfectly and completely happy , if any such thing as complete happiness can be formed in a sublunary state .
this savage was now a good christian , a much better than i ; though i have reason to hope , and bless god for it , that we were equally penitent , and comforted , restored penitents . we had here the word of god to read , and no farther off from his spirit to instruct than if we had been in england .
i always applied myself , in reading the scripture , to let him know , as well as i could , the meaning of what i read ; and he again , by his serious inquiries and questionings , made me , as i said before , a much better scholar in the scripture knowledge than i should ever have been by my own mere private reading .
another thing i cannot refrain from observing here also , from experience in this retired part of my life , viz. how infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is that the knowledge of god , and of the doctrine of salvation by christ jesus , is so plainly laid down in the word of god , so easy to be received and understood , that , as the bare reading the scripture made me capable of understanding enough of my duty to carry me directly on to the great work of sincere repentance for my sins , and laying hold of a saviour for life and salvation , to a stated reformation in practice , and obedience to all god 's commands , and this without any teacher or instructor , i mean human ; so the same plain instruction sufficiently served to the enlightening this savage creature , and bringing him to be such a christian as i have known few equal to him in my life .
as to all the disputes , wrangling , strife , and contention which have happened in the world about religion , whether niceties in doctrines or schemes of church government , they were all perfectly useless to us , and , for aught i can yet see , they have been so to the rest of the world .
we had the sure guide to heaven , viz. the word of god ; and we had , blessed be god , comfortable views of the spirit of god teaching and instructing by his word , leading us into all truth , and making us both willing and obedient to the instruction of his word .
and i cannot see the least use that the greatest knowledge of the disputed points of religion , which have made such confusion in the world , would have been to us , if we could have obtained it . but i must go on with the historical part of things , and take every part in its order .
after friday and i became more intimately acquainted , and that he could understand almost all i said to him , and speak pretty fluently , though in broken english , to me , i acquainted him with my own history , or at least so much of it as related to my coming to this place : how i had lived there , and how long ; i let him into the mystery , for such it was to him , of gunpowder and bullet , and taught him how to shoot .
i gave him a knife , which he was wonderfully delighted with ; and i made him a belt , with a frog hanging to it , such as in england we wear hangers in ; and in the frog , instead of a hanger , i gave him a hatchet , which was not only as good a weapon in some cases , but much more useful upon other occasions .
i described to him the country of europe , particularly england , which i came from ; how we lived , how we worshipped god , how we behaved to one another , and how we traded in ships to all parts of the world .
i gave him an account of the wreck which i had been on board of , and showed him , as near as i could , the place where she lay ; but she was all beaten in pieces before , and gone .
i showed him the ruins of our boat , which we lost when we escaped , and which i could not stir with my whole strength then ; but was now fallen almost all to pieces .
upon seeing this boat , friday stood , musing a great while , and said nothing .
i asked him what it was he studied upon . at last says he , " me see such boat like come to place at my nation . "
i did not understand him a good while ; but at last , when i had examined further into it , i understood by him that a boat , such as that had been , came on shore upon the country where he lived : that is , as he explained it , was driven thither by stress of weather .
i presently imagined that some european ship must have been cast away upon their coast , and the boat might get loose and drive ashore ; but was so dull that i never once thought of men making their escape from a wreck thither , much less whence they might come : so i only inquired after a description of the boat .
friday described the boat to me well enough ; but brought me better to understand him when he added with some warmth , " we save the white mans from drown . " then i presently asked if there were any white mans , as he called them , in the boat . " yes , " he said ; " the boat full of white mans . " i asked him how many . he told upon his fingers seventeen . i asked him then what became of them . he told me , " they live , they dwell at my nation . "
this put new thoughts into my head ; for i presently imagined that these might be the men belonging to the ship that was cast away in the sight of my island , as i now called it ; and who , after the ship was struck on the rock , and they saw her inevitably lost , had saved themselves in their boat , and were landed upon that wild shore among the savages .
upon this i inquired of him more critically what was become of them .
he assured me they lived still there ; that they had been there about four years ; that the savages left them alone , and gave them victuals to live on .
i asked him how it came to pass they did not kill them and eat them . he said , " no , they make brother with them ; " that is , as i understood him , a truce ; and then he added , " they no eat mans but when make the war fight ; " that is to say , they never eat any men but such as come to fight with them and are taken in battle .
it was after this some considerable time , that being upon the top of the hill at the east side of the island , from whence , as i have said , i had , in a clear day , discovered the main or continent of america , friday , the weather being very serene , looks very earnestly towards the mainland , and , in a kind of surprise , falls a jumping and dancing , and calls out to me , for i was at some distance from him .
i asked him what was the matter . " oh , joy ! " says he ; " oh , glad ! there see my country , there my nation ! "
i observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared in his face , and his eyes sparkled , and his countenance discovered a strange eagerness , as if he had a mind to be in his own country again .
this observation of mine put a great many thoughts into me , which made me at first not so easy about my new man friday as i was before ; and i made no doubt but that , if friday could get back to his own nation again , he would not only forget all his religion but all his obligation to me , and would be forward enough to give his countrymen an account of me , and come back , perhaps with a hundred or two of them , and make a feast upon me , at which he might be as merry as he used to be with those of his enemies when they were taken in war .
but i wronged the poor honest creature very much , for which i was very sorry afterwards .
however , as my jealousy increased , and held some weeks , i was a little more circumspect , and not so familiar and kind to him as before : in which i was certainly wrong too ; the honest , grateful creature having no thought about it but what consisted with the best principles , both as a religious christian and as a grateful friend , as appeared afterwards to my full satisfaction .
while my jealousy of him lasted , you may be sure i was every day pumping him to see if he would discover any of the new thoughts which i suspected were in him ; but i found everything he said was so honest and so innocent , that i could find nothing to nourish my suspicion ; and in spite of all my uneasiness , he made me at last entirely his own again ; nor did he in the least perceive that i was uneasy , and therefore i could not suspect him of deceit .
one day , walking up the same hill , but the weather being hazy at sea , so that we could not see the continent , i called to him , and said , " friday , do not you wish yourself in your own country , your own nation ? " " yes , " he said , " i be much o glad to be at my own nation . "
" what would you do there ? " said i. " would you turn wild again , eat men 's flesh again , and be a savage as you were before ? "
he looked full of concern , and shaking his head , said , " no , no , friday tell them to live good ; tell them to pray god ; tell them to eat corn-bread , cattle flesh , milk ; no eat man again . " " why , then , " said i to him , " they will kill you . "
he looked grave at that , and then said , " no , no , they no kill me , they willing love learn . " he meant by this , they would be willing to learn .
he added , they learned much of the bearded mans that came in the boat . then i asked him if he would go back to them .
" no , no , " says he , " me make they no eat you ; me make they much love you . " he meant , he would tell them how i had killed his enemies , and saved his life , and so he would make them love me .
then he told me , as well as he could , how kind they were to seventeen white men , or bearded men , as he called them who came on shore there in distress . from this time , i confess , i had a mind to venture over , and see if i could possibly join with those bearded men , who i made no doubt were spaniards and portuguese ; not doubting but , if i could , we might find some method to escape from thence , being upon the continent , and a good company together , better than i could from an island forty miles off the shore , alone and without help .
so , after some days , i took friday to work again by way of discourse , and told him i would give him a boat to go back to his own nation ; and , accordingly , i carried him to my frigate , which lay on the other side of the island , and having cleared it of water ( for i always kept it sunk in water ) , i brought it out , showed it him , and we both went into it . i found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing it , and would make it go almost as swift again as i could .
so when he was in , i said to him , " well , now , friday , shall we go to your nation ? " he looked very dull at my saying so ; which it seems was because he thought the boat was too small to go so far .
i then told him i had a bigger ; so the next day i went to the place where the first boat lay which i had made , but which i could not get into the water .
he said that was big enough ; but then , as i had taken no care of it , and it had lain two or three and twenty years there , the sun had so split and dried it , that it was rotten .
friday told me such a boat would do very well , and would carry " much enough vittle , drink , bread ; " this was his way of talking .
upon the whole , i was by this time so fixed upon my design of going over with him to the continent that i told him we would go and make one as big as that , and he should go home in it . he answered not one word , but looked very grave and sad . i asked him what was the matter with him . he asked me again , " why you angry mad with friday ? - what me done ? " i asked him what he meant . i told him i was not angry with him at all . " no angry ! " says he , repeating the words several times ; " why send friday home away to my nation ? " " why , " says i , " friday , did not you say you wished you were there ? " " yes , yes , " says he , " wish we both there ; no wish friday there , no master there . " in a word , he would not think of going there without me . " i go there , friday ? " says i ; " what shall i do there ? " he turned very quick upon me at this . " you do great deal much good , " says he ; " you teach wild mans be good , sober , tame mans ; you tell them know god , pray god , and live new life . " " alas , friday ! " says i , " thou knowest not what thou sayest ; i am but an ignorant man myself . " " yes , yes , " says he , " you teachee me good , you teachee them good . " " no , no , friday , " says i , " you shall go without me ; leave me here to live by myself , as i did before . " he looked confused again at that word ; and running to one of the hatchets which he used to wear , he takes it up hastily , and gives it to me . " what must i do with this ? " says i to him . " you take kill friday , " says he . " what must kill you for ? " said i again . he returns very quick - " what you send friday away for ? take kill friday , no send friday away . " this he spoke so earnestly that i saw tears stand in his eyes . in a word , i so plainly discovered the utmost affection in him to me , and a firm resolution in him , that i told him then and often after , that i would never send him away from me if he was willing to stay with me .
upon the whole , as i found by all his discourse a settled affection to me , and that nothing could part him from me , so i found all the foundation of his desire to go to his own country was laid in his ardent affection to the people , and his hopes of my doing them good ; a thing which , as i had no notion of myself , so i had not the least thought or intention , or desire of undertaking it .
but still i found a strong inclination to attempting my escape , founded on the supposition gathered from the discourse , that there were seventeen bearded men there ; and therefore , without any more delay , i went to work with friday to find out a great tree proper to fell , and make a large periagua , or canoe , to undertake the voyage .
there were trees enough in the island to have built a little fleet , not of periaguas or canoes , but even of good , large vessels ; but the main thing i looked at was , to get one so near the water that we might launch it when it was made , to avoid the mistake i committed at first .
at last friday pitched upon a tree ; for i found he knew much better than i what kind of wood was fittest for it ; nor can i tell to this day what wood to call the tree we cut down , except that it was very like the tree we call fustic , or between that and the nicaragua wood , for it was much of the same colour and smell .
friday wished to burn the hollow or cavity of this tree out , to make it for a boat , but i showed him how to cut it with tools ; which , after i had showed him how to use , he did very handily ; and in about a month 's hard labour we finished it and made it very handsome ; especially when , with our axes , which i showed him how to handle , we cut and hewed the outside into the true shape of a boat .
after this , however , it cost us near a fortnight 's time to get her along , as it were inch by inch , upon great rollers into the water ; but when she was in , she would have carried twenty men with great ease .
when she was in the water , though she was so big , it amazed me to see with what dexterity and how swift my man friday could manage her , turn her , and paddle her along . so i asked him if he would , and if we might venture over in her .
" yes , " he said , " we venture over in her very well , though great blow wind . " however i had a further design that he knew nothing of , and that was , to make a mast and a sail , and to fit her with an anchor and cable .
as to a mast , that was easy enough to get ; so i pitched upon a straight young cedar-tree , which i found near the place , and which there were great plenty of in the island , and i set friday to work to cut it down , and gave him directions how to shape and order it .
but as to the sail , that was my particular care .
i knew i had old sails , or rather pieces of old sails , enough ; but as i had had them now six-and-twenty years by me , and had not been very careful to preserve them , not imagining that i should ever have this kind of use for them , i did not doubt but they were all rotten ; and , indeed , most of them were so .
however , i found two pieces which appeared pretty good , and with these i went to work ; and with a great deal of pains , and awkward stitching , you may be sure , for want of needles , i at length made a three-cornered ugly thing , like what we call in england a shoulder-of-mutton sail , to go with a boom at bottom , and a little short sprit at the top , such as usually our ships ' long-boats sail with , and such as i best knew how to manage , as it was such a one as i had to the boat in which i made my escape from barbary , as related in the first part of my story .
i was near two months performing this last work , viz. rigging and fitting my masts and sails ; for i finished them very complete , making a small stay , and a sail , or foresail , to it , to assist if we should turn to windward ; and , what was more than all , i fixed a rudder to the stern of her to steer with .
i was but a bungling shipwright , yet as i knew the usefulness and even necessity of such a thing , i applied myself with so much pains to do it , that at last i brought it to pass ; though , considering the many dull contrivances i had for it that failed , i think it cost me almost as much labour as making the boat .
after all this was done , i had my man friday to teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my boat ; though he knew very well how to paddle a canoe , he knew nothing of what belonged to a sail and a rudder ; and was the most amazed when he saw me work the boat to and again in the sea by the rudder , and how the sail jibed , and filled this way or that way as the course we sailed changed ; i say when he saw this he stood like one astonished and amazed .
however , with a little use , i made all these things familiar to him , and he became an expert sailor , except that of the compass i could make him understand very little .
on the other hand , as there was very little cloudy weather , and seldom or never any fogs in those parts , there was the less occasion for a compass , seeing the stars were always to be seen by night , and the shore by day , except in the rainy seasons , and then nobody cared to stir abroad either by land or sea .
i was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year of my captivity in this place ; though the three last years that i had this creature with me ought rather to be left out of the account , my habitation being quite of another kind than in all the rest of the time .
i kept the anniversary of my landing here with the same thankfulness to god for his mercies as at first : and if i had such cause of acknowledgment at first , i had much more so now , having such additional testimonies of the care of providence over me , and the great hopes i had of being effectually and speedily delivered ; for i had an invincible impression upon my thoughts that my deliverance was at hand , and that i should not be another year in this place .
i went on , however , with my husbandry ; digging , planting , and fencing as usual . i gathered and cured my grapes , and did every necessary thing as before .
the rainy season was in the meantime upon me , when i kept more within doors than at other times .
we had stowed our new vessel as secure as we could , bringing her up into the creek , where , as i said in the beginning , i landed my rafts from the ship ; and hauling her up to the shore at high-water mark , i made my man friday dig a little dock , just big enough to hold her , and just deep enough to give her water enough to float in ; and then , when the tide was out , we made a strong dam across the end of it , to keep the water out ; and so she lay , dry as to the tide from the sea : and to keep the rain off we laid a great many boughs of trees , so thick that she was as well thatched as a house ; and thus we waited for the months of november and december , in which i designed to make my adventure .
when the settled season began to come in , as the thought of my design returned with the fair weather , i was preparing daily for the voyage .
and the first thing i did was to lay by a certain quantity of provisions , being the stores for our voyage ; and intended in a week or a fortnight 's time to open the dock , and launch out our boat . i was busy one morning upon something of this kind , when i called to friday , and bid him to go to the sea-shore and see if he could find a turtle or a tortoise , a thing which we generally got once a week , for the sake of the eggs as well as the flesh .
friday had not been long gone when he came running back , and flew over my outer wall or fence , like one that felt not the ground or the steps he set his foot on ; and before i had time to speak to him he cries out to me , " o master ! o master !
o bad ! " - " what 's the matter , friday ? " says i. " o yonder there , " says he , " one , two , three canoes ; one , two , three ! "
by this way of speaking i concluded there were six ; but on inquiry i found there were but three . " well , friday , " says i , " do not be frightened . "
so i heartened him up as well as i could .
however , i saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared , for nothing ran in his head but that they were come to look for him , and would cut him in pieces and eat him ; and the poor fellow trembled so that i scarcely knew what to do with him . i comforted him as well as i could , and told him i was in as much danger as he , and that they would eat me as well as him .
can you fight , friday ? " " me shoot , " says he , " but there come many great number . "
" no matter for that , " said i again ; " our guns will fright them that we do not kill . " so i asked him whether , if i resolved to defend him , he would defend me , and stand by me , and do just as i bid him .
so i went and fetched a good dram of rum and gave him ; for i had been so good a husband of my rum that i had a great deal left . when we had drunk it , i made him take the two fowling-pieces , which we always carried , and loaded them with large swan-shot , as big as small pistol-bullets .
then i took four muskets , and loaded them with two slugs and five small bullets each ; and my two pistols i loaded with a brace of bullets each .
i hung my great sword , as usual , naked by my side , and gave friday his hatchet . when i had thus prepared myself , i took my perspective glass , and went up to the side of the hill , to see what i could discover ; and i found quickly by my glass that there were one-and-twenty savages , three prisoners , and three canoes ; and that their whole business seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon these three human bodies : a barbarous feast , indeed ! but nothing more than , as i had observed , was usual with them .
i observed also that they had landed , not where they had done when friday made his escape , but nearer to my creek , where the shore was low , and where a thick wood came almost close down to the sea .
this , with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretches came about , filled me with such indignation that i came down again to friday , and told him i was resolved to go down to them and kill them all ; and asked him if he would stand by me .
he had now got over his fright , and his spirits being a little raised with the dram i had given him , he was very cheerful , and told me , as before , he would die when i bid die .
in this fit of fury i divided the arms which i had charged , as before , between us ; i gave friday one pistol to stick in his girdle , and three guns upon his shoulder , and i took one pistol and the other three guns myself ; and in this posture we marched out .
i took a small bottle of rum in my pocket , and gave friday a large bag with more powder and bullets ; and as to orders , i charged him to keep close behind me , and not to stir , or shoot , or do anything till i bid him , and in the meantime not to speak a word .
in this posture i fetched a compass to my right hand of near a mile , as well to get over the creek as to get into the wood , so that i could come within shot of them before i should be discovered , which i had seen by my glass it was easy to do .
while i was making this march , my former thoughts returning , i began to abate my resolution : i do not mean that i entertained any fear of their number , for as they were naked , unarmed wretches , it is certain i was superior to them - nay , though i had been alone .
but it occurred to my thoughts , what call , what occasion , much less what necessity i was in to go and dip my hands in blood , to attack people who had neither done or intended me any wrong ? who , as to me , were innocent , and whose barbarous customs were their own disaster , being in them a token , indeed , of god 's having left them , with the other nations of that part of the world , to such stupidity , and to such inhuman courses , but did not call me to take upon me to be a judge of their actions , much less an executioner of his justice - that whenever he thought fit he would take the cause into his own hands , and by national vengeance punish them as a people for national crimes , but that , in the meantime , it was none of my business - that it was true friday might justify it , because he was a declared enemy and in a state of war with those very particular people , and it was lawful for him to attack them - but i could not say the same with regard to myself .
these things were so warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the way as i went , that i resolved i would only go and place myself near them that i might observe their barbarous feast , and that i would act then as god should direct ; but that unless something offered that was more a call to me than yet i knew of , i would not meddle with them .
with this resolution i entered the wood , and , with all possible wariness and silence , friday following close at my heels , i marched till i came to the skirts of the wood on the side which was next to them , only that one corner of the wood lay between me and them .
here i called softly to friday , and showing him a great tree which was just at the corner of the wood , i bade him go to the tree , and bring me word if he could see there plainly what they were doing .
he did so , and came immediately back to me , and told me they might be plainly viewed there - that they were all about their fire , eating the flesh of one of their prisoners , and that another lay bound upon the sand a little from them , whom he said they would kill next ; and this fired the very soul within me .
he told me it was not one of their nation , but one of the bearded men he had told me of , that came to their country in the boat .
i was filled with horror at the very naming of the white bearded man ; and going to the tree , i saw plainly by my glass a white man , who lay upon the beach of the sea with his hands and his feet tied with flags , or things like rushes , and that he was an european , and had clothes on .
there was another tree and a little thicket beyond it , about fifty yards nearer to them than the place where i was , which , by going a little way about , i saw i might come at undiscovered , and that then i should be within half a shot of them ; so i withheld my passion , though i was indeed enraged to the highest degree ; and going back about twenty paces , i got behind some bushes , which held all the way till i came to the other tree , and then came to a little rising ground , which gave me a full view of them at the distance of about eighty yards .
i had now not a moment to lose , for nineteen of the dreadful wretches sat upon the ground , all close huddled together , and had just sent the other two to butcher the poor christian , and bring him perhaps limb by limb to their fire , and they were stooping down to untie the bands at his feet . i turned to friday . " now , friday , " said i , " do as i bid thee . " friday said he would . " then , friday , " says i , " do exactly as you see me do ; fail in nothing . " so i set down one of the muskets and the fowling-piece upon the ground , and friday did the like by his , and with the other musket i took my aim at the savages , bidding him to do the like ; then asking him if he was ready , he said , " yes . " " then fire at them , " said i ; and at the same moment i fired also .
friday took his aim so much better than i , that on the side that he shot he killed two of them , and wounded three more ; and on my side i killed one , and wounded two .
they were , you may be sure , in a dreadful consternation : and all of them that were not hurt jumped upon their feet , but did not immediately know which way to run , or which way to look , for they knew not from whence their destruction came .
friday kept his eyes close upon me , that , as i had bid him , he might observe what i did ; so , as soon as the first shot was made , i threw down the piece , and took up the fowling-piece , and friday did the like ; he saw me cock and present ; he did the same again .
" are you ready , friday ? " said i. " yes , " says he .
" let fly , then , " says i , " in the name of god ! " and with that i fired again among the amazed wretches , and so did friday ; and as our pieces were now loaded with what i call swan-shot , or small pistol-bullets , we found only two drop ; but so many were wounded that they ran about yelling and screaming like mad creatures , all bloody , and most of them miserably wounded ; whereof three more fell quickly after , though not quite dead .
" now , friday , " says i , laying down the discharged pieces , and taking up the musket which was yet loaded , " follow me , " which he did with a great deal of courage ; upon which i rushed out of the wood and showed myself , and friday close at my foot .
as soon as i perceived they saw me , i shouted as loud as i could , and bade friday do so too , and running as fast as i could , which , by the way , was not very fast , being loaded with arms as i was , i made directly towards the poor victim , who was , as i said , lying upon the beach or shore , between the place where they sat and the sea .
the two butchers who were just going to work with him had left him at the surprise of our first fire , and fled in a terrible fright to the seaside , and had jumped into a canoe , and three more of the rest made the same way .
i turned to friday , and bade him step forwards and fire at them ; he understood me immediately , and running about forty yards , to be nearer them , he shot at them ; and i thought he had killed them all , for i saw them all fall of a heap into the boat , though i saw two of them up again quickly ; however , he killed two of them , and wounded the third , so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat as if he had been dead .
while my man friday fired at them , i pulled out my knife and cut the flags that bound the poor victim ; and loosing his hands and feet , i lifted him up , and asked him in the portuguese tongue what he was .
he answered in latin , christianus ; but was so weak and faint that he could scarce stand or speak .
i took my bottle out of my pocket and gave it him , making signs that he should drink , which he did ; and i gave him a piece of bread , which he ate .
then i asked him what countryman he was : and he said , espagniole ; and being a little recovered , let me know , by all the signs he could possibly make , how much he was in my debt for his deliverance . " seignior , " said i , with as much spanish as i could make up , " we will talk afterwards , but we must fight now : if you have any strength left , take this pistol and sword , and lay about you . "
he took them very thankfully ; and no sooner had he the arms in his hands , but , as if they had put new vigour into him , he flew upon his murderers like a fury , and had cut two of them in pieces in an instant ; for the truth is , as the whole was a surprise to them , so the poor creatures were so much frightened with the noise of our pieces that they fell down for mere amazement and fear , and had no more power to attempt their own escape than their flesh had to resist our shot ; and that was the case of those five that friday shot at in the boat ; for as three of them fell with the hurt they received , so the other two fell with the fright .
i kept my piece in my hand still without firing , being willing to keep my charge ready , because i had given the spaniard my pistol and sword : so i called to friday , and bade him run up to the tree from whence we first fired , and fetch the arms which lay there that had been discharged , which he did with great swiftness ; and then giving him my musket , i sat down myself to load all the rest again , and bade them come to me when they wanted .
while i was loading these pieces , there happened a fierce engagement between the spaniard and one of the savages , who made at him with one of their great wooden swords , the weapon that was to have killed him before , if i had not prevented it .
the spaniard , who was as bold and brave as could be imagined , though weak , had fought the indian a good while , and had cut two great wounds on his head ; but the savage being a stout , lusty fellow , closing in with him , had thrown him down , being faint , and was wringing my sword out of his hand ; when the spaniard , though undermost , wisely quitting the sword , drew the pistol from his girdle , shot the savage through the body , and killed him upon the spot , before i , who was running to help him , could come near him .
friday , being now left to his liberty , pursued the flying wretches , with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet : and with that he despatched those three who as i said before , were wounded at first , and fallen , and all the rest he could come up with : and the spaniard coming to me for a gun , i gave him one of the fowling-pieces , with which he pursued two of the savages , and wounded them both ; but as he was not able to run , they both got from him into the wood , where friday pursued them , and killed one of them , but the other was too nimble for him ; and though he was wounded , yet had plunged himself into the sea , and swam with all his might off to those two who were left in the canoe ; which three in the canoe , with one wounded , that we knew not whether he died or no , were all that escaped our hands of one-and-twenty .
the account of the whole is as follows : three killed at our first shot from the tree ; two killed at the next shot ; two killed by friday in the boat ; two killed by friday of those at first wounded ; one killed by friday in the wood ; three killed by the spaniard ; four killed , being found dropped here and there , of the wounds , or killed by friday in his chase of them ; four escaped in the boat , whereof one wounded , if not dead - twenty-one in all .
those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of gun-shot , and though friday made two or three shots at them , i did not find that he hit any of them .
friday would fain have had me take one of their canoes , and pursue them ; and indeed i was very anxious about their escape , lest , carrying the news home to their people , they should come back perhaps with two or three hundred of the canoes and devour us by mere multitude ; so i consented to pursue them by sea , and running to one of their canoes , i jumped in and bade friday follow me : but when i was in the canoe i was surprised to find another poor creature lie there , bound hand and foot , as the spaniard was , for the slaughter , and almost dead with fear , not knowing what was the matter ; for he had not been able to look up over the side of the boat , he was tied so hard neck and heels , and had been tied so long that he had really but little life in him .
i immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes which they had bound him with , and would have helped him up ; but he could not stand or speak , but groaned most piteously , believing , it seems , still , that he was only unbound in order to be killed .
when friday came to him i bade him speak to him , and tell him of his deliverance ; and pulling out my bottle , made him give the poor wretch a dram , which , with the news of his being delivered , revived him , and he sat up in the boat .
but when friday came to hear him speak , and look in his face , it would have moved any one to tears to have seen how friday kissed him , embraced him , hugged him , cried , laughed , hallooed , jumped about , danced , sang ; then cried again , wrung his hands , beat his own face and head ; and then sang and jumped about again like a distracted creature .
it was a good while before i could make him speak to me or tell me what was the matter ; but when he came a little to himself he told me that it was his father .
it is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see what ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this poor savage at the sight of his father , and of his being delivered from death ; nor indeed can i describe half the extravagances of his affection after this : for he went into the boat and out of the boat a great many times : when he went in to him he would sit down by him , open his breast , and hold his father 's head close to his bosom for many minutes together , to nourish it ; then he took his arms and ankles , which were numbed and stiff with the binding , and chafed and rubbed them with his hands ; and i , perceiving what the case was , gave him some rum out of my bottle to rub them with , which did them a great deal of good .
this affair put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the other savages , who were now almost out of sight ; and it was happy for us that we did not , for it blew so hard within two hours after , and before they could be got a quarter of their way , and continued blowing so hard all night , and that from the north-west , which was against them , that i could not suppose their boat could live , or that they ever reached their own coast .
but to return to friday ; he was so busy about his father that i could not find in my heart to take him off for some time ; but after i thought he could leave him a little , i called him to me , and he came jumping and laughing , and pleased to the highest extreme : then i asked him if he had given his father any bread .
he shook his head , and said , " none ; ugly dog eat all up self . "
i then gave him a cake of bread out of a little pouch i carried on purpose ; i also gave him a dram for himself ; but he would not taste it , but carried it to his father .
i had in my pocket two or three bunches of raisins , so i gave him a handful of them for his father .
he had no sooner given his father these raisins but i saw him come out of the boat , and run away as if he had been bewitched , for he was the swiftest fellow on his feet that ever i saw : i say , he ran at such a rate that he was out of sight , as it were , in an instant ; and though i called , and hallooed out too after him , it was all one - away he went ; and in a quarter of an hour i saw him come back again , though not so fast as he went ; and as he came nearer i found his pace slacker , because he had something in his hand .
when he came up to me i found he had been quite home for an earthen jug or pot , to bring his father some fresh water , and that he had got two more cakes or loaves of bread : the bread he gave me , but the water he carried to his father ; however , as i was very thirsty too , i took a little of it .
the water revived his father more than all the rum or spirits i had given him , for he was fainting with thirst .
when his father had drunk , i called to him to know if there was any water left .
he said , " yes " ; and i bade him give it to the poor spaniard , who was in as much want of it as his father ; and i sent one of the cakes that friday brought to the spaniard too , who was indeed very weak , and was reposing himself upon a green place under the shade of a tree ; and whose limbs were also very stiff , and very much swelled with the rude bandage he had been tied with .
when i saw that upon friday 's coming to him with the water he sat up and drank , and took the bread and began to eat , i went to him and gave him a handful of raisins .
he looked up in my face with all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that could appear in any countenance ; but was so weak , notwithstanding he had so exerted himself in the fight , that he could not stand up upon his feet - he tried to do it two or three times , but was really not able , his ankles were so swelled and so painful to him ; so i bade him sit still , and caused friday to rub his ankles , and bathe them with rum , as he had done his father 's .
i observed the poor affectionate creature , every two minutes , or perhaps less , all the while he was here , turn his head about to see if his father was in the same place and posture as he left him sitting ; and at last he found he was not to be seen ; at which he started up , and , without speaking a word , flew with that swiftness to him that one could scarce perceive his feet to touch the ground as he went ; but when he came , he only found he had laid himself down to ease his limbs , so friday came back to me presently ; and then i spoke to the spaniard to let friday help him up if he could , and lead him to the boat , and then he should carry him to our dwelling , where i would take care of him .
but friday , a lusty , strong fellow , took the spaniard upon his back , and carried him away to the boat , and set him down softly upon the side or gunnel of the canoe , with his feet in the inside of it ; and then lifting him quite in , he set him close to his father ; and presently stepping out again , launched the boat off , and paddled it along the shore faster than i could walk , though the wind blew pretty hard too ; so he brought them both safe into our creek , and leaving them in the boat , ran away to fetch the other canoe .
as he passed me i spoke to him , and asked him whither he went .
he told me , " go fetch more boat ; " so away he went like the wind , for sure never man or horse ran like him ; and he had the other canoe in the creek almost as soon as i got to it by land ; so he wafted me over , and then went to help our new guests out of the boat , which he did ; but they were neither of them able to walk ; so that poor friday knew not what to do .
to remedy this , i went to work in my thought , and calling to friday to bid them sit down on the bank while he came to me , i soon made a kind of hand-barrow to lay them on , and friday and i carried them both up together upon it between us .
but when we got them to the outside of our wall , or fortification , we were at a worse loss than before , for it was impossible to get them over , and i was resolved not to break it down ; so i set to work again , and friday and i , in about two hours ' time , made a very handsome tent , covered with old sails , and above that with boughs of trees , being in the space without our outward fence and between that and the grove of young wood which i had planted ; and here we made them two beds of such things as i had - viz. of good rice-straw , with blankets laid upon it to lie on , and another to cover them , on each bed .
my island was now peopled , and i thought myself very rich in subjects ; and it was a merry reflection , which i frequently made , how like a king i looked .
first of all , the whole country was my own property , so that i had an undoubted right of dominion . secondly , my people were perfectly subjected - i was absolutely lord and lawgiver - they all owed their lives to me , and were ready to lay down their lives , if there had been occasion for it , for me .
it was remarkable , too , i had but three subjects , and they were of three different religions - my man friday was a protestant , his father was a pagan and a cannibal , and the spaniard was a papist .
however , i allowed liberty of conscience throughout my dominions . but this is by the way .
as soon as i had secured my two weak , rescued prisoners , and given them shelter , and a place to rest them upon , i began to think of making some provision for them ; and the first thing i did , i ordered friday to take a yearling goat , betwixt a kid and a goat , out of my particular flock , to be killed ; when i cut off the hinder-quarter , and chopping it into small pieces , i set friday to work to boiling and stewing , and made them a very good dish , i assure you , of flesh and broth ; and as i cooked it without doors , for i made no fire within my inner wall , so i carried it all into the new tent , and having set a table there for them , i sat down , and ate my own dinner also with them , and , as well as i could , cheered them and encouraged them .
friday was my interpreter , especially to his father , and , indeed , to the spaniard too ; for the spaniard spoke the language of the savages pretty well .
after we had dined , or rather supped , i ordered friday to take one of the canoes , and go and fetch our muskets and other firearms , which , for want of time , we had left upon the place of battle ; and the next day i ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of the savages , which lay open to the sun , and would presently be offensive .
i also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their barbarous feast , which i could not think of doing myself ; nay , i could not bear to see them if i went that way ; all which he punctually performed , and effaced the very appearance of the savages being there ; so that when i went again , i could scarce know where it was , otherwise than by the corner of the wood pointing to the place .
i then began to enter into a little conversation with my two new subjects ; and , first , i set friday to inquire of his father what he thought of the escape of the savages in that canoe , and whether we might expect a return of them , with a power too great for us to resist .
his first opinion was , that the savages in the boat never could live out the storm which blew that night they went off , but must of necessity be drowned , or driven south to those other shores , where they were as sure to be devoured as they were to be drowned if they were cast away ; but , as to what they would do if they came safe on shore , he said he knew not ; but it was his opinion that they were so dreadfully frightened with the manner of their being attacked , the noise , and the fire , that he believed they would tell the people they were all killed by thunder and lightning , not by the hand of man ; and that the two which appeared - viz . friday and i - were two heavenly spirits , or furies , come down to destroy them , and not men with weapons .
this , he said , he knew ; because he heard them all cry out so , in their language , one to another ; for it was impossible for them to conceive that a man could dart fire , and speak thunder , and kill at a distance , without lifting up the hand , as was done now : and this old savage was in the right ; for , as i understood since , by other hands , the savages never attempted to go over to the island afterwards , they were so terrified with the accounts given by those four men ( for it seems they did escape the sea ) , that they believed whoever went to that enchanted island would be destroyed with fire from the gods .
this , however , i knew not ; and therefore was under continual apprehensions for a good while , and kept always upon my guard , with all my army : for , as there were now four of us , i would have ventured upon a hundred of them , fairly in the open field , at any time .
in a little time , however , no more canoes appearing , the fear of their coming wore off ; and i began to take my former thoughts of a voyage to the main into consideration ; being likewise assured by friday 's father that i might depend upon good usage from their nation , on his account , if i would go .
but my thoughts were a little suspended when i had a serious discourse with the spaniard , and when i understood that there were sixteen more of his countrymen and portuguese , who having been cast away and made their escape to that side , lived there at peace , indeed , with the savages , but were very sore put to it for necessaries , and , indeed , for life .
i asked him all the particulars of their voyage , and found they were a spanish ship , bound from the rio de la plata to the havanna , being directed to leave their loading there , which was chiefly hides and silver , and to bring back what european goods they could meet with there ; that they had five portuguese seamen on board , whom they took out of another wreck ; that five of their own men were drowned when first the ship was lost , and that these escaped through infinite dangers and hazards , and arrived , almost starved , on the cannibal coast , where they expected to have been devoured every moment .
he told me they had some arms with them , but they were perfectly useless , for that they had neither powder nor ball , the washing of the sea having spoiled all their powder but a little , which they used at their first landing to provide themselves with some food .
i asked him what he thought would become of them there , and if they had formed any design of making their escape . he said they had many consultations about it ; but that having neither vessel nor tools to build one , nor provisions of any kind , their councils always ended in tears and despair .
i asked him how he thought they would receive a proposal from me , which might tend towards an escape ; and whether , if they were all here , it might not be done . i told him with freedom , i feared mostly their treachery and ill-usage of me , if i put my life in their hands ; for that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature of man , nor did men always square their dealings by the obligations they had received so much as they did by the advantages they expected .
i told him it would be very hard that i should be made the instrument of their deliverance , and that they should afterwards make me their prisoner in new spain , where an englishman was certain to be made a sacrifice , what necessity or what accident soever brought him thither ; and that i had rather be delivered up to the savages , and be devoured alive , than fall into the merciless claws of the priests , and be carried into the inquisition . i added that , otherwise , i was persuaded , if they were all here , we might , with so many hands , build a barque large enough to carry us all away , either to the brazils southward , or to the islands or spanish coast northward ; but that if , in requital , they should , when i had put weapons into their hands , carry me by force among their own people , i might be ill-used for my kindness to them , and make my case worse than it was before .
he answered , with a great deal of candour and ingenuousness , that their condition was so miserable , and that they were so sensible of it , that he believed they would abhor the thought of using any man unkindly that should contribute to their deliverance ; and that , if i pleased , he would go to them with the old man , and discourse with them about it , and return again and bring me their answer ; that he would make conditions with them upon their solemn oath , that they should be absolutely under my direction as their commander and captain ; and they should swear upon the holy sacraments and gospel to be true to me , and go to such christian country as i should agree to , and no other ; and to be directed wholly and absolutely by my orders till they were landed safely in such country as i intended , and that he would bring a contract from them , under their hands , for that purpose .
then he told me he would first swear to me himself that he would never stir from me as long as he lived till i gave him orders ; and that he would take my side to the last drop of his blood , if there should happen the least breach of faith among his countrymen .
he told me they were all of them very civil , honest men , and they were under the greatest distress imaginable , having neither weapons nor clothes , nor any food , but at the mercy and discretion of the savages ; out of all hopes of ever returning to their own country ; and that he was sure , if i would undertake their relief , they would live and die by me .
upon these assurances , i resolved to venture to relieve them , if possible , and to send the old savage and this spaniard over to them to treat .
but when we had got all things in readiness to go , the spaniard himself started an objection , which had so much prudence in it on one hand , and so much sincerity on the other hand , that i could not but be very well satisfied in it ; and , by his advice , put off the deliverance of his comrades for at least half a year .
the case was thus : he had been with us now about a month , during which time i had let him see in what manner i had provided , with the assistance of providence , for my support ; and he saw evidently what stock of corn and rice i had laid up ; which , though it was more than sufficient for myself , yet it was not sufficient , without good husbandry , for my family , now it was increased to four ; but much less would it be sufficient if his countrymen , who were , as he said , sixteen , still alive , should come over ; and least of all would it be sufficient to victual our vessel , if we should build one , for a voyage to any of the christian colonies of america ; so he told me he thought it would be more advisable to let him and the other two dig and cultivate some more land , as much as i could spare seed to sow , and that we should wait another harvest , that we might have a supply of corn for his countrymen , when they should come ; for want might be a temptation to them to disagree , or not to think themselves delivered , otherwise than out of one difficulty into another . " you know , " says he , " the children of israel , though they rejoiced at first for their being delivered out of egypt , yet rebelled even against god himself , that delivered them , when they came to want bread in the wilderness . "
his caution was so seasonable , and his advice so good , that i could not but be very well pleased with his proposal , as well as i was satisfied with his fidelity ; so we fell to digging , all four of us , as well as the wooden tools we were furnished with permitted ; and in about a month 's time , by the end of which it was seed-time , we had got as much land cured and trimmed up as we sowed two-and-twenty bushels of barley on , and sixteen jars of rice , which was , in short , all the seed we had to spare : indeed , we left ourselves barely sufficient , for our own food for the six months that we had to expect our crop ; that is to say reckoning from the time we set our seed aside for sowing ; for it is not to be supposed it is six months in the ground in that country .
having now society enough , and our numbers being sufficient to put us out of fear of the savages , if they had come , unless their number had been very great , we went freely all over the island , whenever we found occasion ; and as we had our escape or deliverance upon our thoughts , it was impossible , at least for me , to have the means of it out of mine .
for this purpose i marked out several trees , which i thought fit for our work , and i set friday and his father to cut them down ; and then i caused the spaniard , to whom i imparted my thoughts on that affair , to oversee and direct their work .
i showed them with what indefatigable pains i had hewed a large tree into single planks , and i caused them to do the like , till they made about a dozen large planks , of good oak , near two feet broad , thirty-five feet long , and from two inches to four inches thick : what prodigious labour it took up any one may imagine .
at the same time i contrived to increase my little flock of tame goats as much as i could ; and for this purpose i made friday and the spaniard go out one day , and myself with friday the next day ( for we took our turns ) , and by this means we got about twenty young kids to breed up with the rest ; for whenever we shot the dam , we saved the kids , and added them to our flock .
but above all , the season for curing the grapes coming on , i caused such a prodigious quantity to be hung up in the sun , that , i believe , had we been at alicant , where the raisins of the sun are cured , we could have filled sixty or eighty barrels ; and these , with our bread , formed a great part of our food - very good living too , i assure you , for they are exceedingly nourishing .
it was now harvest , and our crop in good order : it was not the most plentiful increase i had seen in the island , but , however , it was enough to answer our end ; for from twenty-two bushels of barley we brought in and thrashed out above two hundred and twenty bushels ; and the like in proportion of the rice ; which was store enough for our food to the next harvest , though all the sixteen spaniards had been on shore with me ; or , if we had been ready for a voyage , it would very plentifully have victualled our ship to have carried us to any part of the world ; that is to say , any part of america .
when we had thus housed and secured our magazine of corn , we fell to work to make more wicker-ware , viz. great baskets , in which we kept it ; and the spaniard was very handy and dexterous at this part , and often blamed me that i did not make some things for defence of this kind of work ; but i saw no need of it .
and now , having a full supply of food for all the guests i expected , i gave the spaniard leave to go over to the main , to see what he could do with those he had left behind him there .
i gave him a strict charge not to bring any man who would not first swear in the presence of himself and the old savage that he would in no way injure , fight with , or attack the person he should find in the island , who was so kind as to send for them in order to their deliverance ; but that they would stand by him and defend him against all such attempts , and wherever they went would be entirely under and subjected to his command ; and that this should be put in writing , and signed in their hands .
how they were to have done this , when i knew they had neither pen nor ink , was a question which we never asked .
under these instructions , the spaniard and the old savage , the father of friday , went away in one of the canoes which they might be said to have come in , or rather were brought in , when they came as prisoners to be devoured by the savages .
i gave each of them a musket , with a firelock on it , and about eight charges of powder and ball , charging them to be very good husbands of both , and not to use either of them but upon urgent occasions .
this was a cheerful work , being the first measures used by me in view of my deliverance for now twenty-seven years and some days . i gave them provisions of bread and of dried grapes , sufficient for themselves for many days , and sufficient for all the spaniards - for about eight days ' time ; and wishing them a good voyage , i saw them go , agreeing with them about a signal they should hang out at their return , by which i should know them again when they came back , at a distance , before they came on shore .
they went away with a fair gale on the day that the moon was at full , by my account in the month of october ; but as for an exact reckoning of days , after i had once lost it i could never recover it again ; nor had i kept even the number of years so punctually as to be sure i was right ; though , as it proved when i afterwards examined my account , i found i had kept a true reckoning of years .
it was no less than eight days i had waited for them , when a strange and unforeseen accident intervened , of which the like has not , perhaps , been heard of in history .
i was fast asleep in my hutch one morning , when my man friday came running in to me , and called aloud , " master , master , they are come , they are come ! "
i jumped up , and regardless of danger i went , as soon as i could get my clothes on , through my little grove , which , by the way , was by this time grown to be a very thick wood ; i say , regardless of danger i went without my arms , which was not my custom to do ; but i was surprised when , turning my eyes to the sea , i presently saw a boat at about a league and a half distance , standing in for the shore , with a shoulder-of-mutton sail , as they call it , and the wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in : also i observed , presently , that they did not come from that side which the shore lay on , but from the southernmost end of the island .
upon this i called friday in , and bade him lie close , for these were not the people we looked for , and that we might not know yet whether they were friends or enemies .
in the next place i went in to fetch my perspective glass to see what i could make of them ; and having taken the ladder out , i climbed up to the top of the hill , as i used to do when i was apprehensive of anything , and to take my view the plainer without being discovered .
i had scarce set my foot upon the hill when my eye plainly discovered a ship lying at anchor , at about two leagues and a half distance from me , sse . , but not above a league and a half from the shore .
by my observation it appeared plainly to be an english ship , and the boat appeared to be an english long-boat .
i cannot express the confusion i was in , though the joy of seeing a ship , and one that i had reason to believe was manned by my own countrymen , and consequently friends , was such as i cannot describe ; but yet i had some secret doubts hung about me - i cannot tell from whence they came - bidding me keep upon my guard .
in the first place , it occurred to me to consider what business an english ship could have in that part of the world , since it was not the way to or from any part of the world where the english had any traffic ; and i knew there had been no storms to drive them in there in distress ; and that if they were really english it was most probable that they were here upon no good design ; and that i had better continue as i was than fall into the hands of thieves and murderers .
let no man despise the secret hints and notices of danger which sometimes are given him when he may think there is no possibility of its being real .
that such hints and notices are given us i believe few that have made any observation of things can deny ; that they are certain discoveries of an invisible world , and a converse of spirits , we cannot doubt ; and if the tendency of them seems to be to warn us of danger , why should we not suppose they are from some friendly agent ( whether supreme , or inferior and subordinate , is not the question ) , and that they are given for our good ?
the present question abundantly confirms me in the justice of this reasoning ; for had i not been made cautious by this secret admonition , come it from whence it will , i had been done inevitably , and in a far worse condition than before , as you will see presently .
i had not kept myself long in this posture till i saw the boat draw near the shore , as if they looked for a creek to thrust in at , for the convenience of landing ; however , as they did not come quite far enough , they did not see the little inlet where i formerly landed my rafts , but ran their boat on shore upon the beach , at about half a mile from me , which was very happy for me ; for otherwise they would have landed just at my door , as i may say , and would soon have beaten me out of my castle , and perhaps have plundered me of all i had .
when they were on shore i was fully satisfied they were englishmen , at least most of them ; one or two i thought were dutch , but it did not prove so ; there were in all eleven men , whereof three of them i found were unarmed and , as i thought , bound ; and when the first four or five of them were jumped on shore , they took those three out of the boat as prisoners : one of the three i could perceive using the most passionate gestures of entreaty , affliction , and despair , even to a kind of extravagance ; the other two , i could perceive , lifted up their hands sometimes , and appeared concerned indeed , but not to such a degree as the first .
i was perfectly confounded at the sight , and knew not what the meaning of it should be .
friday called out to me in english , as well as he could , " o master ! you see english mans eat prisoner as well as savage mans . "
" why , friday , " says i , " do you think they are going to eat them , then ? " " yes , " says friday , " they will eat them . "
" no no , " says i , " friday ; i am afraid they will murder them , indeed ; but you may be sure they will not eat them . "
all this while i had no thought of what the matter really was , but stood trembling with the horror of the sight , expecting every moment when the three prisoners should be killed ; nay , once i saw one of the villains lift up his arm with a great cutlass , as the seamen call it , or sword , to strike one of the poor men ; and i expected to see him fall every moment ; at which all the blood in my body seemed to run chill in my veins .
i wished heartily now for the spaniard , and the savage that had gone with him , or that i had any way to have come undiscovered within shot of them , that i might have secured the three men , for i saw no firearms they had among them ; but it fell out to my mind another way .
after i had observed the outrageous usage of the three men by the insolent seamen , i observed the fellows run scattering about the island , as if they wanted to see the country .
i observed that the three other men had liberty to go also where they pleased ; but they sat down all three upon the ground , very pensive , and looked like men in despair .
this put me in mind of the first time when i came on shore , and began to look about me ; how i gave myself over for lost ; how wildly i looked round me ; what dreadful apprehensions i had ; and how i lodged in the tree all night for fear of being devoured by wild beasts .
as i knew nothing that night of the supply i was to receive by the providential driving of the ship nearer the land by the storms and tide , by which i have since been so long nourished and supported ; so these three poor desolate men knew nothing how certain of deliverance and supply they were , how near it was to them , and how effectually and really they were in a condition of safety , at the same time that they thought themselves lost and their case desperate .
so little do we see before us in the world , and so much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon the great maker of the world , that he does not leave his creatures so absolutely destitute , but that in the worst circumstances they have always something to be thankful for , and sometimes are nearer deliverance than they imagine ; nay , are even brought to their deliverance by the means by which they seem to be brought to their destruction .
it was just at high-water when these people came on shore ; and while they rambled about to see what kind of a place they were in , they had carelessly stayed till the tide was spent , and the water was ebbed considerably away , leaving their boat aground .
they had left two men in the boat , who , as i found afterwards , having drunk a little too much brandy , fell asleep ; however , one of them waking a little sooner than the other and finding the boat too fast aground for him to stir it , hallooed out for the rest , who were straggling about : upon which they all soon came to the boat : but it was past all their strength to launch her , the boat being very heavy , and the shore on that side being a soft oozy sand , almost like a quicksand .
in this condition , like true seamen , who are , perhaps , the least of all mankind given to forethought , they gave it over , and away they strolled about the country again ; and i heard one of them say aloud to another , calling them off from the boat , " why , let her alone , jack , can 't you ? she 'll float next tide ; " by which i was fully confirmed in the main inquiry of what countrymen they were .
all this while i kept myself very close , not once daring to stir out of my castle any farther than to my place of observation near the top of the hill : and very glad i was to think how well it was fortified .
i knew it was no less than ten hours before the boat could float again , and by that time it would be dark , and i might be at more liberty to see their motions , and to hear their discourse , if they had any .
in the meantime i fitted myself up for a battle as before , though with more caution , knowing i had to do with another kind of enemy than i had at first .
i ordered friday also , whom i had made an excellent marksman with his gun , to load himself with arms .
i took myself two fowling-pieces , and i gave him three muskets .
my figure , indeed , was very fierce ; i had my formidable goat-skin coat on , with the great cap i have mentioned , a naked sword by my side , two pistols in my belt , and a gun upon each shoulder .
it was my design , as i said above , not to have made any attempt till it was dark ; but about two o 'clock , being the heat of the day , i found that they were all gone straggling into the woods , and , as i thought , laid down to sleep .
the three poor distressed men , too anxious for their condition to get any sleep , had , however , sat down under the shelter of a great tree , at about a quarter of a mile from me , and , as i thought , out of sight of any of the rest .
upon this i resolved to discover myself to them , and learn something of their condition ; immediately i marched as above , my man friday at a good distance behind me , as formidable for his arms as i , but not making quite so staring a spectre-like figure as i did .
i came as near them undiscovered as i could , and then , before any of them saw me , i called aloud to them in spanish , " what are ye , gentlemen ? "
they started up at the noise , but were ten times more confounded when they saw me , and the uncouth figure that i made . they made no answer at all , but i thought i perceived them just going to fly from me , when i spoke to them in english .
" gentlemen , " said i , " do not be surprised at me ; perhaps you may have a friend near when you did not expect it . " " he must be sent directly from heaven then , " said one of them very gravely to me , and pulling off his hat at the same time to me ; " for our condition is past the help of man . "
" all help is from heaven , sir , " said i , " but can you put a stranger in the way to help you ? for you seem to be in some great distress .
i saw you when you landed ; and when you seemed to make application to the brutes that came with you , i saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you . "
the poor man , with tears running down his face , and trembling , looking like one astonished , returned , " am i talking to god or man ? is it a real man or an angel ? "
" be in no fear about that , sir , " said i ; " if god had sent an angel to relieve you , he would have come better clothed , and armed after another manner than you see me ; pray lay aside your fears ; i am a man , an englishman , and disposed to assist you ; you see i have one servant only ; we have arms and ammunition ; tell us freely , can we serve you ? what is your case ? "
" our case , sir , " said he , " is too long to tell you while our murderers are so near us ; but , in short , sir , i was commander of that ship - my men have mutinied against me ; they have been hardly prevailed on not to murder me , and , at last , have set me on shore in this desolate place , with these two men with me - one my mate , the other a passenger - where we expected to perish , believing the place to be uninhabited , and know not yet what to think of it . " " where are these brutes , your enemies ? " said i ; " do you know where they are gone ?
there they lie , sir , " said he , pointing to a thicket of trees ; " my heart trembles for fear they have seen us and heard you speak ; if they have , they will certainly murder us all . " " have they any firearms ? " said i. he answered , " they had only two pieces , one of which they left in the boat . "
" well , then , " said i , " leave the rest to me ; i see they are all asleep ; it is an easy thing to kill them all ; but shall we rather take them prisoners ? "
he told me there were two desperate villains among them that it was scarce safe to show any mercy to ; but if they were secured , he believed all the rest would return to their duty . i asked him which they were .
he told me he could not at that distance distinguish them , but he would obey my orders in anything i would direct .
" well , " says i , " let us retreat out of their view or hearing , lest they awake , and we will resolve further . " so they willingly went back with me , till the woods covered us from them .
" look you , sir , " said i , " if i venture upon your deliverance , are you willing to make two conditions with me ? "
he anticipated my proposals by telling me that both he and the ship , if recovered , should be wholly directed and commanded by me in everything ; and if the ship was not recovered , he would live and die with me in what part of the world soever i would send him ; and the two other men said the same .
" well , " says i , " my conditions are but two ; first , that while you stay in this island with me , you will not pretend to any authority here ; and if i put arms in your hands , you will , upon all occasions , give them up to me , and do no prejudice to me or mine upon this island , and in the meantime be governed by my orders ; secondly , that if the ship is or may be recovered , you will carry me and my man to england passage free . "
he gave me all the assurances that the invention or faith of man could devise that he would comply with these most reasonable demands , and besides would owe his life to me , and acknowledge it upon all occasions as long as he lived . " well , then , " said i , " here are three muskets for you , with powder and ball ; tell me next what you think is proper to be done . "
he showed all the testimonies of his gratitude that he was able , but offered to be wholly guided by me .
i told him i thought it was very hard venturing anything ; but the best method i could think of was to fire on them at once as they lay , and if any were not killed at the first volley , and offered to submit , we might save them , and so put it wholly upon god 's providence to direct the shot .
he said , very modestly , that he was loath to kill them if he could help it ; but that those two were incorrigible villains , and had been the authors of all the mutiny in the ship , and if they escaped , we should be undone still , for they would go on board and bring the whole ship 's company , and destroy us all . " well , then , " says i , " necessity legitimates my advice , for it is the only way to save our lives . "
in the middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake , and soon after we saw two of them on their feet .
i asked him if either of them were the heads of the mutiny ? he said , " no . "
" well , then , " said i , " you may let them escape ; and providence seems to have awakened them on purpose to save themselves .
now , " says i , " if the rest escape you , it is your fault . "
animated with this , he took the musket i had given him in his hand , and a pistol in his belt , and his two comrades with him , with each a piece in his hand ; the two men who were with him going first made some noise , at which one of the seamen who was awake turned about , and seeing them coming , cried out to the rest ; but was too late then , for the moment he cried out they fired - i mean the two men , the captain wisely reserving his own piece .
they had so well aimed their shot at the men they knew , that one of them was killed on the spot , and the other very much wounded ; but not being dead , he started up on his feet , and called eagerly for help to the other ; but the captain stepping to him , told him it was too late to cry for help , he should call upon god to forgive his villainy , and with that word knocked him down with the stock of his musket , so that he never spoke more ; there were three more in the company , and one of them was slightly wounded .
by this time i was come ; and when they saw their danger , and that it was in vain to resist , they begged for mercy .
the captain told them he would spare their lives if they would give him an assurance of their abhorrence of the treachery they had been guilty of , and would swear to be faithful to him in recovering the ship , and afterwards in carrying her back to jamaica , from whence they came . they gave him all the protestations of their sincerity that could be desired ; and he was willing to believe them , and spare their lives , which i was not against , only that i obliged him to keep them bound hand and foot while they were on the island .
while this was doing , i sent friday with the captain 's mate to the boat with orders to secure her , and bring away the oars and sails , which they did ; and by-and-by three straggling men , that were ( happily for them ) parted from the rest , came back upon hearing the guns fired ; and seeing the captain , who was before their prisoner , now their conqueror , they submitted to be bound also ; and so our victory was complete .
it now remained that the captain and i should inquire into one another 's circumstances .
i began first , and told him my whole history , which he heard with an attention even to amazement - and particularly at the wonderful manner of my being furnished with provisions and ammunition ; and , indeed , as my story is a whole collection of wonders , it affected him deeply .
but when he reflected from thence upon himself , and how i seemed to have been preserved there on purpose to save his life , the tears ran down his face , and he could not speak a word more .
after this communication was at an end , i carried him and his two men into my apartment , leading them in just where i came out , viz. at the top of the house , where i refreshed them with such provisions as i had , and showed them all the contrivances i had made during my long , long inhabiting that place .
all i showed them , all i said to them , was perfectly amazing ; but above all , the captain admired my fortification , and how perfectly i had concealed my retreat with a grove of trees , which having been now planted nearly twenty years , and the trees growing much faster than in england , was become a little wood , so thick that it was impassable in any part of it but at that one side where i had reserved my little winding passage into it .
i told him this was my castle and my residence , but that i had a seat in the country , as most princes have , whither i could retreat upon occasion , and i would show him that too another time ; but at present our business was to consider how to recover the ship .
he agreed with me as to that , but told me he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take , for that there were still six-and-twenty hands on board , who , having entered into a cursed conspiracy , by which they had all forfeited their lives to the law , would be hardened in it now by desperation , and would carry it on , knowing that if they were subdued they would be brought to the gallows as soon as they came to england , or to any of the english colonies , and that , therefore , there would be no attacking them with so small a number as we were .
i mused for some time on what he had said , and found it was a very rational conclusion , and that therefore something was to be resolved on speedily , as well to draw the men on board into some snare for their surprise as to prevent their landing upon us , and destroying us .
upon this , it presently occurred to me that in a little while the ship 's crew , wondering what was become of their comrades and of the boat , would certainly come on shore in their other boat to look for them , and that then , perhaps , they might come armed , and be too strong for us : this he allowed to be rational .
upon this , i told him the first thing we had to do was to stave the boat which lay upon the beach , so that they might not carry her of , and taking everything out of her , leave her so far useless as not to be fit to swim .
accordingly , we went on board , took the arms which were left on board out of her , and whatever else we found there - which was a bottle of brandy , and another of rum , a few biscuit-cakes , a horn of powder , and a great lump of sugar in a piece of canvas ( the sugar was five or six pounds ) : all which was very welcome to me , especially the brandy and sugar , of which i had had none left for many years .
when we had carried all these things on shore ( the oars , mast , sail , and rudder of the boat were carried away before ) , we knocked a great hole in her bottom , that if they had come strong enough to master us , yet they could not carry off the boat .
indeed , it was not much in my thoughts that we could be able to recover the ship ; but my view was , that if they went away without the boat , i did not much question to make her again fit to carry as to the leeward islands , and call upon our friends the spaniards in my way , for i had them still in my thoughts .
while we were thus preparing our designs , and had first , by main strength , heaved the boat upon the beach , so high that the tide would not float her off at high-water mark , and besides , had broke a hole in her bottom too big to be quickly stopped , and were set down musing what we should do , we heard the ship fire a gun , and make a waft with her ensign as a signal for the boat to come on board - but no boat stirred ; and they fired several times , making other signals for the boat .
at last , when all their signals and firing proved fruitless , and they found the boat did not stir , we saw them , by the help of my glasses , hoist another boat out and row towards the shore ; and we found , as they approached , that there were no less than ten men in her , and that they had firearms with them .
as the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore , we had a full view of them as they came , and a plain sight even of their faces ; because the tide having set them a little to the east of the other boat , they rowed up under shore , to come to the same place where the other had landed , and where the boat lay ; by this means , i say , we had a full view of them , and the captain knew the persons and characters of all the men in the boat , of whom , he said , there were three very honest fellows , who , he was sure , were led into this conspiracy by the rest , being over-powered and frightened ; but that as for the boatswain , who it seems was the chief officer among them , and all the rest , they were as outrageous as any of the ship 's crew , and were no doubt made desperate in their new enterprise ; and terribly apprehensive he was that they would be too powerful for us .
i smiled at him , and told him that men in our circumstances were past the operation of fear ; that seeing almost every condition that could be was better than that which we were supposed to be in , we ought to expect that the consequence , whether death or life , would be sure to be a deliverance . i asked him what he thought of the circumstances of my life , and whether a deliverance were not worth venturing for ?
" and where , sir , " said i , " is your belief of my being preserved here on purpose to save your life , which elevated you a little while ago ? for my part , " said i , " there seems to be but one thing amiss in all the prospect of it . "
" what is that ? " say he . " why , " said i , " it is , that as you say there are three or four honest fellows among them which should be spared , had they been all of the wicked part of the crew i should have thought god 's providence had singled them out to deliver them into your hands ; for depend upon it , every man that comes ashore is our own , and shall die or live as they behave to us . "
as i spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful countenance , i found it greatly encouraged him ; so we set vigorously to our business .
we had , upon the first appearance of the boat 's coming from the ship , considered of separating our prisoners ; and we had , indeed , secured them effectually . two of them , of whom the captain was less assured than ordinary , i sent with friday , and one of the three delivered men , to my cave , where they were remote enough , and out of danger of being heard or discovered , or of finding their way out of the woods if they could have delivered themselves .
here they left them bound , but gave them provisions ; and promised them , if they continued there quietly , to give them their liberty in a day or two ; but that if they attempted their escape they should be put to death without mercy .
they promised faithfully to bear their confinement with patience , and were very thankful that they had such good usage as to have provisions and light left them ; for friday gave them candles ( such as we made ourselves ) for their comfort ; and they did not know but that he stood sentinel over them at the entrance .
the other prisoners had better usage ; two of them were kept pinioned , indeed , because the captain was not able to trust them ; but the other two were taken into my service , upon the captain 's recommendation , and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die with us ; so with them and the three honest men we were seven men , well armed ; and i made no doubt we should be able to deal well enough with the ten that were coming , considering that the captain had said there were three or four honest men among them also .
as soon as they got to the place where their other boat lay , they ran their boat into the beach and came all on shore , hauling the boat up after them , which i was glad to see , for i was afraid they would rather have left the boat at an anchor some distance from the shore , with some hands in her to guard her , and so we should not be able to seize the boat .
being on shore , the first thing they did , they ran all to their other boat ; and it was easy to see they were under a great surprise to find her stripped , as above , of all that was in her , and a great hole in her bottom .
after they had mused a while upon this , they set up two or three great shouts , hallooing with all their might , to try if they could make their companions hear ; but all was to no purpose .
then they came all close in a ring , and fired a volley of their small arms , which indeed we heard , and the echoes made the woods ring .
but it was all one ; those in the cave , we were sure , could not hear ; and those in our keeping , though they heard it well enough , yet durst give no answer to them .
they were so astonished at the surprise of this , that , as they told us afterwards , they resolved to go all on board again to their ship , and let them know that the men were all murdered , and the long-boat staved ; accordingly , they immediately launched their boat again , and got all of them on board .
the captain was terribly amazed , and even confounded , at this , believing they would go on board the ship again and set sail , giving their comrades over for lost , and so he should still lose the ship , which he was in hopes we should have recovered ; but he was quickly as much frightened the other way .
they had not been long put off with the boat , when we perceived them all coming on shore again ; but with this new measure in their conduct , which it seems they consulted together upon , viz. to leave three men in the boat , and the rest to go on shore , and go up into the country to look for their fellows .
this was a great disappointment to us , for now we were at a loss what to do , as our seizing those seven men on shore would be no advantage to us if we let the boat escape ; because they would row away to the ship , and then the rest of them would be sure to weigh and set sail , and so our recovering the ship would be lost .
however we had no remedy but to wait and see what the issue of things might present .
the seven men came on shore , and the three who remained in the boat put her off to a good distance from the shore , and came to an anchor to wait for them ; so that it was impossible for us to come at them in the boat .
those that came on shore kept close together , marching towards the top of the little hill under which my habitation lay ; and we could see them plainly , though they could not perceive us .
we should have been very glad if they would have come nearer us , so that we might have fired at them , or that they would have gone farther off , that we might come abroad .
but when they were come to the brow of the hill where they could see a great way into the valleys and woods , which lay towards the north-east part , and where the island lay lowest , they shouted and hallooed till they were weary ; and not caring , it seems , to venture far from the shore , nor far from one another , they sat down together under a tree to consider it .
had they thought fit to have gone to sleep there , as the other part of them had done , they had done the job for us ; but they were too full of apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep , though they could not tell what the danger was they had to fear .
the captain made a very just proposal to me upon this consultation of theirs , viz. that perhaps they would all fire a volley again , to endeavour to make their fellows hear , and that we should all sally upon them just at the juncture when their pieces were all discharged , and they would certainly yield , and we should have them without bloodshed . i liked this proposal , provided it was done while we were near enough to come up to them before they could load their pieces again .
but this event did not happen ; and we lay still a long time , very irresolute what course to take .
at length i told them there would be nothing done , in my opinion , till night ; and then , if they did not return to the boat , perhaps we might find a way to get between them and the shore , and so might use some stratagem with them in the boat to get them on shore .
we waited a great while , though very impatient for their removing ; and were very uneasy when , after long consultation , we saw them all start up and march down towards the sea ; it seems they had such dreadful apprehensions of the danger of the place that they resolved to go on board the ship again , give their companions over for lost , and so go on with their intended voyage with the ship .
as soon as i perceived them go towards the shore , i imagined it to be as it really was that they had given over their search , and were going back again ; and the captain , as soon as i told him my thoughts , was ready to sink at the apprehensions of it ; but i presently thought of a stratagem to fetch them back again , and which answered my end to a tittle .
i ordered friday and the captain 's mate to go over the little creek westward , towards the place where the savages came on shore , when friday was rescued , and so soon as they came to a little rising round , at about half a mile distant , i bid them halloo out , as loud as they could , and wait till they found the seamen heard them ; that as soon as ever they heard the seamen answer them , they should return it again ; and then , keeping out of sight , take a round , always answering when the others hallooed , to draw them as far into the island and among the woods as possible , and then wheel about again to me by such ways as i directed them .
they were just going into the boat when friday and the mate hallooed ; and they presently heard them , and answering , ran along the shore westward , towards the voice they heard , when they were stopped by the creek , where the water being up , they could not get over , and called for the boat to come up and set them over ; as , indeed , i expected .
when they had set themselves over , i observed that the boat being gone a good way into the creek , and , as it were , in a harbour within the land , they took one of the three men out of her , to go along with them , and left only two in the boat , having fastened her to the stump of a little tree on the shore .
this was what i wished for ; and immediately leaving friday and the captain 's mate to their business , i took the rest with me ; and , crossing the creek out of their sight , we surprised the two men before they were aware - one of them lying on the shore , and the other being in the boat .
the fellow on shore was between sleeping and waking , and going to start up ; the captain , who was foremost , ran in upon him , and knocked him down ; and then called out to him in the boat to yield , or he was a dead man .
they needed very few arguments to persuade a single man to yield , when he saw five men upon him and his comrade knocked down : besides , this was , it seems , one of the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the crew , and therefore was easily persuaded not only to yield , but afterwards to join very sincerely with us .
in the meantime , friday and the captain 's mate so well managed their business with the rest that they drew them , by hallooing and answering , from one hill to another , and from one wood to another , till they not only heartily tired them , but left them where they were , very sure they could not reach back to the boat before it was dark ; and , indeed , they were heartily tired themselves also , by the time they came back to us .
we had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the dark , and to fall upon them , so as to make sure work with them .
it was several hours after friday came back to me before they came back to their boat ; and we could hear the foremost of them , long before they came quite up , calling to those behind to come along ; and could also hear them answer , and complain how lame and tired they were , and not able to come any faster : which was very welcome news to us .
at length they came up to the boat : but it is impossible to express their confusion when they found the boat fast aground in the creek , the tide ebbed out , and their two men gone .
we could hear them call one to another in a most lamentable manner , telling one another they were got into an enchanted island ; that either there were inhabitants in it , and they should all be murdered , or else there were devils and spirits in it , and they should be all carried away and devoured .
they hallooed again , and called their two comrades by their names a great many times ; but no answer .
after some time we could see them , by the little light there was , run about , wringing their hands like men in despair , and sometimes they would go and sit down in the boat to rest themselves : then come ashore again , and walk about again , and so the same thing over again .
my men would fain have had me give them leave to fall upon them at once in the dark ; but i was willing to take them at some advantage , so as to spare them , and kill as few of them as i could ; and especially i was unwilling to hazard the killing of any of our men , knowing the others were very well armed .
i resolved to wait , to see if they did not separate ; and therefore , to make sure of them , i drew my ambuscade nearer , and ordered friday and the captain to creep upon their hands and feet , as close to the ground as they could , that they might not be discovered , and get as near them as they could possibly before they offered to fire .
they had not been long in that posture when the boatswain , who was the principal ringleader of the mutiny , and had now shown himself the most dejected and dispirited of all the rest , came walking towards them , with two more of the crew ; the captain was so eager at having this principal rogue so much in his power , that he could hardly have patience to let him come so near as to be sure of him , for they only heard his tongue before : but when they came nearer , the captain and friday , starting up on their feet , let fly at them .
the boatswain was killed upon the spot : the next man was shot in the body , and fell just by him , though he did not die till an hour or two after ; and the third ran for it .
at the noise of the fire i immediately advanced with my whole army , which was now eight men , viz. myself , generalissimo ; friday , my lieutenant-general ; the captain and his two men , and the three prisoners of war whom we had trusted with arms .
we came upon them , indeed , in the dark , so that they could not see our number ; and i made the man they had left in the boat , who was now one of us , to call them by name , to try if i could bring them to a parley , and so perhaps might reduce them to terms ; which fell out just as we desired : for indeed it was easy to think , as their condition then was , they would be very willing to capitulate . so he calls out as loud as he could to one of them , " tom smith !
tom smith ! " tom smith answered immediately , " is that robinson ? " for it seems he knew the voice .
the other answered , " ay , ay ; for god 's sake , tom smith , throw down your arms and yield , or you are all dead men this moment . " " who must we yield to ?
where are they ? " says smith again . " here they are , " says he ; " here 's our captain and fifty men with him , have been hunting you these two hours ; the boatswain is killed ; will fry is wounded , and i am a prisoner ; and if you do not yield you are all lost . "
" will they give us quarter , then ? " says tom smith , " and we will yield . "
" i 'll go and ask , if you promise to yield , " said robinson : so he asked the captain , and the captain himself then calls out , " you , smith , you know my voice ; if you lay down your arms immediately and submit , you shall have your lives , all but will atkins . "
upon this will atkins cried out , " for god 's sake , captain , give me quarter ; what have i done ?
they have all been as bad as i : " which , by the way , was not true ; for it seems this will atkins was the first man that laid hold of the captain when they first mutinied , and used him barbarously in tying his hands and giving him injurious language .
however , the captain told him he must lay down his arms at discretion , and trust to the governor 's mercy : by which he meant me , for they all called me governor .
in a word , they all laid down their arms and begged their lives ; and i sent the man that had parleyed with them , and two more , who bound them all ; and then my great army of fifty men , which , with those three , were in all but eight , came up and seized upon them , and upon their boat ; only that i kept myself and one more out of sight for reasons of state .
our next work was to repair the boat , and think of seizing the ship : and as for the captain , now he had leisure to parley with them , he expostulated with them upon the villainy of their practices with him , and upon the further wickedness of their design , and how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress in the end , and perhaps to the gallows .
they all appeared very penitent , and begged hard for their lives .
as for that , he told them they were not his prisoners , but the commander 's of the island ; that they thought they had set him on shore in a barren , uninhabited island ; but it had pleased god so to direct them that it was inhabited , and that the governor was an englishman ; that he might hang them all there , if he pleased ; but as he had given them all quarter , he supposed he would send them to england , to be dealt with there as justice required , except atkins , whom he was commanded by the governor to advise to prepare for death , for that he would be hanged in the morning .
though this was all but a fiction of his own , yet it had its desired effect ; atkins fell upon his knees to beg the captain to intercede with the governor for his life ; and all the rest begged of him , for god 's sake , that they might not be sent to england .
it now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance was come , and that it would be a most easy thing to bring these fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the ship ; so i retired in the dark from them , that they might not see what kind of a governor they had , and called the captain to me ; when i called , at a good distance , one of the men was ordered to speak again , and say to the captain , " captain , the commander calls for you ; " and presently the captain replied , " tell his excellency i am just coming . "
this more perfectly amazed them , and they all believed that the commander was just by , with his fifty men .
upon the captain coming to me , i told him my project for seizing the ship , which he liked wonderfully well , and resolved to put it in execution the next morning .
but , in order to execute it with more art , and to be secure of success , i told him we must divide the prisoners , and that he should go and take atkins , and two more of the worst of them , and send them pinioned to the cave where the others lay .
this was committed to friday and the two men who came on shore with the captain .
they conveyed them to the cave as to a prison : and it was , indeed , a dismal place , especially to men in their condition .
the others i ordered to my bower , as i called it , of which i have given a full description : and as it was fenced in , and they pinioned , the place was secure enough , considering they were upon their behaviour .
to these in the morning i sent the captain , who was to enter into a parley with them ; in a word , to try them , and tell me whether he thought they might be trusted or not to go on board and surprise the ship .
he talked to them of the injury done him , of the condition they were brought to , and that though the governor had given them quarter for their lives as to the present action , yet that if they were sent to england they would all be hanged in chains ; but that if they would join in so just an attempt as to recover the ship , he would have the governor 's engagement for their pardon .
any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be accepted by men in their condition ; they fell down on their knees to the captain , and promised , with the deepest imprecations , that they would be faithful to him to the last drop , and that they should owe their lives to him , and would go with him all over the world ; that they would own him as a father to them as long as they lived . " well , " says the captain , " i must go and tell the governor what you say , and see what i can do to bring him to consent to it . "
so he brought me an account of the temper he found them in , and that he verily believed they would be faithful . however , that we might be very secure , i told him he should go back again and choose out those five , and tell them , that they might see he did not want men , that he would take out those five to be his assistants , and that the governor would keep the other two , and the three that were sent prisoners to the castle ( my cave ) , as hostages for the fidelity of those five ; and that if they proved unfaithful in the execution , the five hostages should be hanged in chains alive on the shore .
this looked severe , and convinced them that the governor was in earnest ; however , they had no way left them but to accept it ; and it was now the business of the prisoners , as much as of the captain , to persuade the other five to do their duty .
our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition : first , the captain , his mate , and passenger ; second , the two prisoners of the first gang , to whom , having their character from the captain , i had given their liberty , and trusted them with arms ; third , the other two that i had kept till now in my bower , pinioned , but on the captain 's motion had now released ; fourth , these five released at last ; so that there were twelve in all , besides five we kept prisoners in the cave for hostages .
i asked the captain if he was willing to venture with these hands on board the ship ; but as for me and my man friday , i did not think it was proper for us to stir , having seven men left behind ; and it was employment enough for us to keep them asunder , and supply them with victuals .
as to the five in the cave , i resolved to keep them fast , but friday went in twice a day to them , to supply them with necessaries ; and i made the other two carry provisions to a certain distance , where friday was to take them .
when i showed myself to the two hostages , it was with the captain , who told them i was the person the governor had ordered to look after them ; and that it was the governor 's pleasure they should not stir anywhere but by my direction ; that if they did , they would be fetched into the castle , and be laid in irons : so that as we never suffered them to see me as governor , i now appeared as another person , and spoke of the governor , the garrison , the castle , and the like , upon all occasions .
the captain now had no difficulty before him , but to furnish his two boats , stop the breach of one , and man them .
he made his passenger captain of one , with four of the men ; and himself , his mate , and five more , went in the other ; and they contrived their business very well , for they came up to the ship about midnight .
as soon as they came within call of the ship , he made robinson hail them , and tell them they had brought off the men and the boat , but that it was a long time before they had found them , and the like , holding them in a chat till they came to the ship 's side ; when the captain and the mate entering first with their arms , immediately knocked down the second mate and carpenter with the butt-end of their muskets , being very faithfully seconded by their men ; they secured all the rest that were upon the main and quarter decks , and began to fasten the hatches , to keep them down that were below ; when the other boat and their men , entering at the forechains , secured the forecastle of the ship , and the scuttle which went down into the cook-room , making three men they found there prisoners .
when this was done , and all safe upon deck , the captain ordered the mate , with three men , to break into the round-house , where the new rebel captain lay , who , having taken the alarm , had got up , and with two men and a boy had got firearms in their hands ; and when the mate , with a crow , split open the door , the new captain and his men fired boldly among them , and wounded the mate with a musket ball , which broke his arm , and wounded two more of the men , but killed nobody .
the mate , calling for help , rushed , however , into the round-house , wounded as he was , and , with his pistol , shot the new captain through the head , the bullet entering at his mouth , and came out again behind one of his ears , so that he never spoke a word more : upon which the rest yielded , and the ship was taken effectually , without any more lives lost .
as soon as the ship was thus secured , the captain ordered seven guns to be fired , which was the signal agreed upon with me to give me notice of his success , which , you may be sure , i was very glad to hear , having sat watching upon the shore for it till near two o 'clock in the morning .
having thus heard the signal plainly , i laid me down ; and it having been a day of great fatigue to me , i slept very sound , till i was surprised with the noise of a gun ; and presently starting up , i heard a man call me by the name of " governor !
governor ! " and presently i knew the captain 's voice ; when , climbing up to the top of the hill , there he stood , and , pointing to the ship , he embraced me in his arms , " my dear friend and deliverer , " says he , " there 's your ship ; for she is all yours , and so are we , and all that belong to her . "
i cast my eyes to the ship , and there she rode , within little more than half a mile of the shore ; for they had weighed her anchor as soon as they were masters of her , and , the weather being fair , had brought her to an anchor just against the mouth of the little creek ; and the tide being up , the captain had brought the pinnace in near the place where i had first landed my rafts , and so landed just at my door .
i was at first ready to sink down with the surprise ; for i saw my deliverance , indeed , visibly put into my hands , all things easy , and a large ship just ready to carry me away whither i pleased to go .
at first , for some time , i was not able to answer him one word ; but as he had taken me in his arms i held fast by him , or i should have fallen to the ground .
he perceived the surprise , and immediately pulled a bottle out of his pocket and gave me a dram of cordial , which he had brought on purpose for me .
after i had drunk it , i sat down upon the ground ; and though it brought me to myself , yet it was a good while before i could speak a word to him .
all this time the poor man was in as great an ecstasy as i , only not under any surprise as i was ; and he said a thousand kind and tender things to me , to compose and bring me to myself ; but such was the flood of joy in my breast , that it put all my spirits into confusion : at last it broke out into tears , and in a little while after i recovered my speech ; i then took my turn , and embraced him as my deliverer , and we rejoiced together .
i told him i looked upon him as a man sent by heaven to deliver me , and that the whole transaction seemed to be a chain of wonders ; that such things as these were the testimonies we had of a secret hand of providence governing the world , and an evidence that the eye of an infinite power could search into the remotest corner of the world , and send help to the miserable whenever he pleased .
i forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to heaven ; and what heart could forbear to bless him , who had not only in a miraculous manner provided for me in such a wilderness , and in such a desolate condition , but from whom every deliverance must always be acknowledged to proceed .
when we had talked a while , the captain told me he had brought me some little refreshment , such as the ship afforded , and such as the wretches that had been so long his masters had not plundered him of .
upon this , he called aloud to the boat , and bade his men bring the things ashore that were for the governor ; and , indeed , it was a present as if i had been one that was not to be carried away with them , but as if i had been to dwell upon the island still .
first , he had brought me a case of bottles full of excellent cordial waters , six large bottles of madeira wine ( the bottles held two quarts each ) , two pounds of excellent good tobacco , twelve good pieces of the ship 's beef , and six pieces of pork , with a bag of peas , and about a hundred-weight of biscuit ; he also brought me a box of sugar , a box of flour , a bag full of lemons , and two bottles of lime-juice , and abundance of other things .
but besides these , and what was a thousand times more useful to me , he brought me six new clean shirts , six very good neckcloths , two pair of gloves , one pair of shoes , a hat , and one pair of stockings , with a very good suit of clothes of his own , which had been worn but very little : in a word , he clothed me from head to foot .
it was a very kind and agreeable present , as any one may imagine , to one in my circumstances , but never was anything in the world of that kind so unpleasant , awkward , and uneasy as it was to me to wear such clothes at first .
after these ceremonies were past , and after all his good things were brought into my little apartment , we began to consult what was to be done with the prisoners we had ; for it was worth considering whether we might venture to take them with us or no , especially two of them , whom he knew to be incorrigible and refractory to the last degree ; and the captain said he knew they were such rogues that there was no obliging them , and if he did carry them away , it must be in irons , as malefactors , to be delivered over to justice at the first english colony he could come to ; and i found that the captain himself was very anxious about it . upon this , i told him that , if he desired it , i would undertake to bring the two men he spoke of to make it their own request that he should leave them upon the island .
" i should be very glad of that , " says the captain , " with all my heart . "
" well , " says i , " i will send for them up and talk with them for you . " so i caused friday and the two hostages , for they were now discharged , their comrades having performed their promise ; i say , i caused them to go to the cave , and bring up the five men , pinioned as they were , to the bower , and keep them there till i came .
after some time , i came thither dressed in my new habit ; and now i was called governor again .
being all met , and the captain with me , i caused the men to be brought before me , and i told them i had got a full account of their villainous behaviour to the captain , and how they had run away with the ship , and were preparing to commit further robberies , but that providence had ensnared them in their own ways , and that they were fallen into the pit which they had dug for others .
i let them know that by my direction the ship had been seized ; that she lay now in the road ; and they might see by-and-by that their new captain had received the reward of his villainy , and that they would see him hanging at the yard-arm ; that , as to them , i wanted to know what they had to say why i should not execute them as pirates taken in the fact , as by my commission they could not doubt but i had authority so to do .
one of them answered in the name of the rest , that they had nothing to say but this , that when they were taken the captain promised them their lives , and they humbly implored my mercy . but i told them i knew not what mercy to show them ; for as for myself , i had resolved to quit the island with all my men , and had taken passage with the captain to go to england ; and as for the captain , he could not carry them to england other than as prisoners in irons , to be tried for mutiny and running away with the ship ; the consequence of which , they must needs know , would be the gallows ; so that i could not tell what was best for them , unless they had a mind to take their fate in the island .
if they desired that , as i had liberty to leave the island , i had some inclination to give them their lives , if they thought they could shift on shore . they seemed very thankful for it , and said they would much rather venture to stay there than be carried to england to be hanged .
however , the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it , as if he durst not leave them there .
upon this i seemed a little angry with the captain , and told him that they were my prisoners , not his ; and that seeing i had offered them so much favour , i would be as good as my word ; and that if he did not think fit to consent to it i would set them at liberty , as i found them : and if he did not like it he might take them again if he could catch them .
upon this they appeared very thankful , and i accordingly set them at liberty , and bade them retire into the woods , to the place whence they came , and i would leave them some firearms , some ammunition , and some directions how they should live very well if they thought fit .
upon this i prepared to go on board the ship ; but told the captain i would stay that night to prepare my things , and desired him to go on board in the meantime , and keep all right in the ship , and send the boat on shore next day for me ; ordering him , at all events , to cause the new captain , who was killed , to be hanged at the yard-arm , that these men might see him .
when the captain was gone i sent for the men up to me to my apartment , and entered seriously into discourse with them on their circumstances .
i told them i thought they had made a right choice ; that if the captain had carried them away they would certainly be hanged .
i showed them the new captain hanging at the yard-arm of the ship , and told them they had nothing less to expect .
when they had all declared their willingness to stay , i then told them i would let them into the story of my living there , and put them into the way of making it easy to them .
accordingly , i gave them the whole history of the place , and of my coming to it ; showed them my fortifications , the way i made my bread , planted my corn , cured my grapes ; and , in a word , all that was necessary to make them easy . i told them the story also of the seventeen spaniards that were to be expected , for whom i left a letter , and made them promise to treat them in common with themselves .
here it may be noted that the captain , who had ink on board , was greatly surprised that i never hit upon a way of making ink of charcoal and water , or of something else , as i had done things much more difficult .
i left them my firearms - viz. five muskets , three fowling-pieces , and three swords . i had above a barrel and a half of powder left ; for after the first year or two i used but little , and wasted none .
i gave them a description of the way i managed the goats , and directions to milk and fatten them , and to make both butter and cheese .
in a word , i gave them every part of my own story ; and told them i should prevail with the captain to leave them two barrels of gunpowder more , and some garden-seeds , which i told them i would have been very glad of .
also , i gave them the bag of peas which the captain had brought me to eat , and bade them be sure to sow and increase them .
having done all this i left them the next day , and went on board the ship .
we prepared immediately to sail , but did not weigh that night .
the next morning early , two of the five men came swimming to the ship 's side , and making the most lamentable complaint of the other three , begged to be taken into the ship for god 's sake , for they should be murdered , and begged the captain to take them on board , though he hanged them immediately .
upon this the captain pretended to have no power without me ; but after some difficulty , and after their solemn promises of amendment , they were taken on board , and were , some time after , soundly whipped and pickled ; after which they proved very honest and quiet fellows .
some time after this , the boat was ordered on shore , the tide being up , with the things promised to the men ; to which the captain , at my intercession , caused their chests and clothes to be added , which they took , and were very thankful for .
i also encouraged them , by telling them that if it lay in my power to send any vessel to take them in , i would not forget them .
when i took leave of this island , i carried on board , for relics , the great goat-skin cap i had made , my umbrella , and one of my parrots ; also , i forgot not to take the money i formerly mentioned , which had lain by me so long useless that it was grown rusty or tarnished , and could hardly pass for silver till it had been a little rubbed and handled , as also the money i found in the wreck of the spanish ship .
and thus i left the island , the 19th of december , as i found by the ship 's account , in the year 1686 , after i had been upon it eight-and-twenty years , two months , and nineteen days ; being delivered from this second captivity the same day of the month that i first made my escape in the long-boat from among the moors of sallee .
in this vessel , after a long voyage , i arrived in england the 11th of june , in the year 1687 , having been thirty-five years absent .
when i came to england i was as perfect a stranger to all the world as if i had never been known there .
my benefactor and faithful steward , whom i had left my money in trust with , was alive , but had had great misfortunes in the world ; was become a widow the second time , and very low in the world .
i made her very easy as to what she owed me , assuring her i would give her no trouble ; but , on the contrary , in gratitude for her former care and faithfulness to me , i relieved her as my little stock would afford ; which at that time would , indeed , allow me to do but little for her ; but i assured her i would never forget her former kindness to me ; nor did i forget her when i had sufficient to help her , as shall be observed in its proper place .
i went down afterwards into yorkshire ; but my father was dead , and my mother and all the family extinct , except that i found two sisters , and two of the children of one of my brothers ; and as i had been long ago given over for dead , there had been no provision made for me ; so that , in a word , i found nothing to relieve or assist me ; and that the little money i had would not do much for me as to settling in the world .
i met with one piece of gratitude indeed , which i did not expect ; and this was , that the master of the ship , whom i had so happily delivered , and by the same means saved the ship and cargo , having given a very handsome account to the owners of the manner how i had saved the lives of the men and the ship , they invited me to meet them and some other merchants concerned , and all together made me a very handsome compliment upon the subject , and a present of almost  200 sterling .
but after making several reflections upon the circumstances of my life , and how little way this would go towards settling me in the world , i resolved to go to lisbon , and see if i might not come at some information of the state of my plantation in the brazils , and of what was become of my partner , who , i had reason to suppose , had some years past given me over for dead .
with this view i took shipping for lisbon , where i arrived in april following , my man friday accompanying me very honestly in all these ramblings , and proving a most faithful servant upon all occasions .
when i came to lisbon , i found out , by inquiry , and to my particular satisfaction , my old friend , the captain of the ship who first took me up at sea off the shore of africa .
he was now grown old , and had left off going to sea , having put his son , who was far from a young man , into his ship , and who still used the brazil trade .
the old man did not know me , and indeed i hardly knew him . but i soon brought him to my remembrance , and as soon brought myself to his remembrance , when i told him who i was .
after some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance between us , i inquired , you may be sure , after my plantation and my partner .
the old man told me he had not been in the brazils for about nine years ; but that he could assure me that when he came away my partner was living , but the trustees whom i had joined with him to take cognisance of my part were both dead : that , however , he believed i would have a very good account of the improvement of the plantation ; for that , upon the general belief of my being cast away and drowned , my trustees had given in the account of the produce of my part of the plantation to the procurator-fiscal , who had appropriated it , in case i never came to claim it , one-third to the king , and two-thirds to the monastery of st. augustine , to be expended for the benefit of the poor , and for the conversion of the indians to the catholic faith : but that , if i appeared , or any one for me , to claim the inheritance , it would be restored ; only that the improvement , or annual production , being distributed to charitable uses , could not be restored : but he assured me that the steward of the king 's revenue from lands , and the providore , or steward of the monastery , had taken great care all along that the incumbent , that is to say my partner , gave every year a faithful account of the produce , of which they had duly received my moiety .
i asked him if he knew to what height of improvement he had brought the plantation , and whether he thought it might be worth looking after ; or whether , on my going thither , i should meet with any obstruction to my possessing my just right in the moiety .
he told me he could not tell exactly to what degree the plantation was improved ; but this he knew , that my partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoying his part of it ; and that , to the best of his remembrance , he had heard that the king 's third of my part , which was , it seems , granted away to some other monastery or religious house , amounted to above two hundred moidores a year : that as to my being restored to a quiet possession of it , there was no question to be made of that , my partner being alive to witness my title , and my name being also enrolled in the register of the country ; also he told me that the survivors of my two trustees were very fair , honest people , and very wealthy ; and he believed i would not only have their assistance for putting me in possession , but would find a very considerable sum of money in their hands for my account , being the produce of the farm while their fathers held the trust , and before it was given up , as above ; which , as he remembered , was for about twelve years .
i showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this account , and inquired of the old captain how it came to pass that the trustees should thus dispose of my effects , when he knew that i had made my will , and had made him , the portuguese captain , my universal heir , & c .
he told me that was true ; but that as there was no proof of my being dead , he could not act as executor until some certain account should come of my death ; and , besides , he was not willing to intermeddle with a thing so remote : that it was true he had registered my will , and put in his claim ; and could he have given any account of my being dead or alive , he would have acted by procuration , and taken possession of the ingenio ( so they call the sugar-house ) , and have given his son , who was now at the brazils , orders to do it .
" but , " says the old man , " i have one piece of news to tell you , which perhaps may not be so acceptable to you as the rest ; and that is , believing you were lost , and all the world believing so also , your partner and trustees did offer to account with me , in your name , for the first six or eight years ' profits , which i received .
there being at that time great disbursements for increasing the works , building an ingenio , and buying slaves , it did not amount to near so much as afterwards it produced ; however , " says the old man , " i shall give you a true account of what i have received in all , and how i have disposed of it . "
after a few days ' further conference with this ancient friend , he brought me an account of the first six years ' income of my plantation , signed by my partner and the merchant-trustees , being always delivered in goods , viz. tobacco in roll , and sugar in chests , besides rum , molasses , & c . , which is the consequence of a sugar-work ; and i found by this account , that every year the income considerably increased ; but , as above , the disbursements being large , the sum at first was small : however , the old man let me see that he was debtor to me four hundred and seventy moidores of gold , besides sixty chests of sugar and fifteen double rolls of tobacco , which were lost in his ship ; he having been shipwrecked coming home to lisbon , about eleven years after my having the place .
the good man then began to complain of his misfortunes , and how he had been obliged to make use of my money to recover his losses , and buy him a share in a new ship .
" however , my old friend , " says he , " you shall not want a supply in your necessity ; and as soon as my son returns you shall be fully satisfied . "
upon this he pulls out an old pouch , and gives me one hundred and sixty portugal moidores in gold ; and giving the writings of his title to the ship , which his son was gone to the brazils in , of which he was quarter-part owner , and his son another , he puts them both into my hands for security of the rest .
i was too much moved with the honesty and kindness of the poor man to be able to bear this ; and remembering what he had done for me , how he had taken me up at sea , and how generously he had used me on all occasions , and particularly how sincere a friend he was now to me , i could hardly refrain weeping at what he had said to me ; therefore i asked him if his circumstances admitted him to spare so much money at that time , and if it would not straiten him ?
he told me he could not say but it might straiten him a little ; but , however , it was my money , and i might want it more than he .
everything the good man said was full of affection , and i could hardly refrain from tears while he spoke ; in short , i took one hundred of the moidores , and called for a pen and ink to give him a receipt for them : then i returned him the rest , and told him if ever i had possession of the plantation i would return the other to him also ( as , indeed , i afterwards did ) ; and that as to the bill of sale of his part in his son 's ship , i would not take it by any means ; but that if i wanted the money , i found he was honest enough to pay me ; and if i did not , but came to receive what he gave me reason to expect , i would never have a penny more from him .
when this was past , the old man asked me if he should put me into a method to make my claim to my plantation .
i told him i thought to go over to it myself . he said i might do so if i pleased , but that if i did not , there were ways enough to secure my right , and immediately to appropriate the profits to my use : and as there were ships in the river of lisbon just ready to go away to brazil , he made me enter my name in a public register , with his affidavit , affirming , upon oath , that i was alive , and that i was the same person who took up the land for the planting the said plantation at first .
this being regularly attested by a notary , and a procuration affixed , he directed me to send it , with a letter of his writing , to a merchant of his acquaintance at the place ; and then proposed my staying with him till an account came of the return .
never was anything more honourable than the proceedings upon this procuration ; for in less than seven months i received a large packet from the survivors of my trustees , the merchants , for whose account i went to sea , in which were the following , particular letters and papers enclosed : -
first , there was the account-current of the produce of my farm or plantation , from the year when their fathers had balanced with my old portugal captain , being for six years ; the balance appeared to be one thousand one hundred and seventy-four moidores in my favour .
secondly , there was the account of four years more , while they kept the effects in their hands , before the government claimed the administration , as being the effects of a person not to be found , which they called civil death ; and the balance of this , the value of the plantation increasing , amounted to nineteen thousand four hundred and forty-six crusadoes , being about three thousand two hundred and forty moidores .
thirdly , there was the prior of st. augustine 's account , who had received the profits for above fourteen years ; but not being able to account for what was disposed of by the hospital , very honestly declared he had eight hundred and seventy-two moidores not distributed , which he acknowledged to my account : as to the king 's part , that refunded nothing .
there was a letter of my partner 's , congratulating me very affectionately upon my being alive , giving me an account how the estate was improved , and what it produced a year ; with the particulars of the number of squares , or acres that it contained , how planted , how many slaves there were upon it : and making two-and-twenty crosses for blessings , told me he had said so many _ ave marias _ to thank the blessed virgin that i was alive ; inviting me very passionately to come over and take possession of my own , and in the meantime to give him orders to whom he should deliver my effects if i did not come myself ; concluding with a hearty tender of his friendship , and that of his family ; and sent me as a present seven fine leopards ' skins , which he had , it seems , received from africa , by some other ship that he had sent thither , and which , it seems , had made a better voyage than i. he sent me also five chests of excellent sweetmeats , and a hundred pieces of gold uncoined , not quite so large as moidores .
by the same fleet my two merchant-trustees shipped me one thousand two hundred chests of sugar , eight hundred rolls of tobacco , and the rest of the whole account in gold .
i might well say now , indeed , that the latter end of job was better than the beginning .
it is impossible to express the flutterings of my very heart when i found all my wealth about me ; for as the brazil ships come all in fleets , the same ships which brought my letters brought my goods : and the effects were safe in the river before the letters came to my hand .
in a word , i turned pale , and grew sick ; and , had not the old man run and fetched me a cordial , i believe the sudden surprise of joy had overset nature , and i had died upon the spot : nay , after that i continued very ill , and was so some hours , till a physician being sent for , and something of the real cause of my illness being known , he ordered me to be let blood ; after which i had relief , and grew well : but i verily believe , if i had not been eased by a vent given in that manner to the spirits , i should have died .
i was now master , all on a sudden , of above five thousand pounds sterling in money , and had an estate , as i might well call it , in the brazils , of above a thousand pounds a year , as sure as an estate of lands in england : and , in a word , i was in a condition which i scarce knew how to understand , or how to compose myself for the enjoyment of it .
the first thing i did was to recompense my original benefactor , my good old captain , who had been first charitable to me in my distress , kind to me in my beginning , and honest to me at the end .
i showed him all that was sent to me ; i told him that , next to the providence of heaven , which disposed all things , it was owing to him ; and that it now lay on me to reward him , which i would do a hundred-fold : so i first returned to him the hundred moidores i had received of him ; then i sent for a notary , and caused him to draw up a general release or discharge from the four hundred and seventy moidores , which he had acknowledged he owed me , in the fullest and firmest manner possible .
after which i caused a procuration to be drawn , empowering him to be the receiver of the annual profits of my plantation : and appointing my partner to account with him , and make the returns , by the usual fleets , to him in my name ; and by a clause in the end , made a grant of one hundred moidores a year to him during his life , out of the effects , and fifty moidores a year to his son after him , for his life : and thus i requited my old man .
i had now to consider which way to steer my course next , and what to do with the estate that providence had thus put into my hands ; and , indeed , i had more care upon my head now than i had in my state of life in the island where i wanted nothing but what i had , and had nothing but what i wanted ; whereas i had now a great charge upon me , and my business was how to secure it .
i had not a cave now to hide my money in , or a place where it might lie without lock or key , till it grew mouldy and tarnished before anybody would meddle with it ; on the contrary , i knew not where to put it , or whom to trust with it .
my old patron , the captain , indeed , was honest , and that was the only refuge i had .
in the next place , my interest in the brazils seemed to summon me thither ; but now i could not tell how to think of going thither till i had settled my affairs , and left my effects in some safe hands behind me .
at first i thought of my old friend the widow , who i knew was honest , and would be just to me ; but then she was in years , and but poor , and , for aught i knew , might be in debt : so that , in a word , i had no way but to go back to england myself and take my effects with me .
it was some months , however , before i resolved upon this ; and , therefore , as i had rewarded the old captain fully , and to his satisfaction , who had been my former benefactor , so i began to think of the poor widow , whose husband had been my first benefactor , and she , while it was in her power , my faithful steward and instructor .
so , the first thing i did , i got a merchant in lisbon to write to his correspondent in london , not only to pay a bill , but to go find her out , and carry her , in money , a hundred pounds from me , and to talk with her , and comfort her in her poverty , by telling her she should , if i lived , have a further supply : at the same time i sent my two sisters in the country a hundred pounds each , they being , though not in want , yet not in very good circumstances ; one having been married and left a widow ; and the other having a husband not so kind to her as he should be .
but among all my relations or acquaintances i could not yet pitch upon one to whom i durst commit the gross of my stock , that i might go away to the brazils , and leave things safe behind me ; and this greatly perplexed me .
i had once a mind to have gone to the brazils and have settled myself there , for i was , as it were , naturalised to the place ; but i had some little scruple in my mind about religion , which insensibly drew me back . however , it was not religion that kept me from going there for the present ; and as i had made no scruple of being openly of the religion of the country all the while i was among them , so neither did i yet ; only that , now and then , having of late thought more of it than formerly , when i began to think of living and dying among them , i began to regret having professed myself a papist , and thought it might not be the best religion to die with .
but , as i have said , this was not the main thing that kept me from going to the brazils , but that really i did not know with whom to leave my effects behind me ; so i resolved at last to go to england , where , if i arrived , i concluded that i should make some acquaintance , or find some relations , that would be faithful to me ; and , accordingly , i prepared to go to england with all my wealth .
in order to prepare things for my going home , i first ( the brazil fleet being just going away ) resolved to give answers suitable to the just and faithful account of things i had from thence ; and , first , to the prior of st. augustine i wrote a letter full of thanks for his just dealings , and the offer of the eight hundred and seventy-two moidores which were undisposed of , which i desired might be given , five hundred to the monastery , and three hundred and seventy-two to the poor , as the prior should direct ; desiring the good padre 's prayers for me , and the like .
i wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees , with all the acknowledgment that so much justice and honesty called for : as for sending them any present , they were far above having any occasion of it .
lastly , i wrote to my partner , acknowledging his industry in the improving the plantation , and his integrity in increasing the stock of the works ; giving him instructions for his future government of my part , according to the powers i had left with my old patron , to whom i desired him to send whatever became due to me , till he should hear from me more particularly ; assuring him that it was my intention not only to come to him , but to settle myself there for the remainder of my life .
to this i added a very handsome present of some italian silks for his wife and two daughters , for such the captain 's son informed me he had ; with two pieces of fine english broadcloth , the best i could get in lisbon , five pieces of black baize , and some flanders lace of a good value .
having thus settled my affairs , sold my cargo , and turned all my effects into good bills of exchange , my next difficulty was which way to go to england : i had been accustomed enough to the sea , and yet i had a strange aversion to go to england by the sea at that time , and yet i could give no reason for it , yet the difficulty increased upon me so much , that though i had once shipped my baggage in order to go , yet i altered my mind , and that not once but two or three times .
it is true i had been very unfortunate by sea , and this might be one of the reasons ; but let no man slight the strong impulses of his own thoughts in cases of such moment : two of the ships which i had singled out to go in , i mean more particularly singled out than any other , having put my things on board one of them , and in the other having agreed with the captain ; i say two of these ships miscarried .
one was taken by the algerines , and the other was lost on the start , near torbay , and all the people drowned except three ; so that in either of those vessels i had been made miserable .
having been thus harassed in my thoughts , my old pilot , to whom i communicated everything , pressed me earnestly not to go by sea , but either to go by land to the groyne , and cross over the bay of biscay to rochelle , from whence it was but an easy and safe journey by land to paris , and so to calais and dover ; or to go up to madrid , and so all the way by land through france .
in a word , i was so prepossessed against my going by sea at all , except from calais to dover , that i resolved to travel all the way by land ; which , as i was not in haste , and did not value the charge , was by much the pleasanter way : and to make it more so , my old captain brought an english gentleman , the son of a merchant in lisbon , who was willing to travel with me ; after which we picked up two more english merchants also , and two young portuguese gentlemen , the last going to paris only ; so that in all there were six of us and five servants ; the two merchants and the two portuguese , contenting themselves with one servant between two , to save the charge ; and as for me , i got an english sailor to travel with me as a servant , besides my man friday , who was too much a stranger to be capable of supplying the place of a servant on the road .
in this manner i set out from lisbon ; and our company being very well mounted and armed , we made a little troop , whereof they did me the honour to call me captain , as well because i was the oldest man , as because i had two servants , and , indeed , was the origin of the whole journey .
as i have troubled you with none of my sea journals , so i shall trouble you now with none of my land journals ; but some adventures that happened to us in this tedious and difficult journey i must not omit .
when we came to madrid , we , being all of us strangers to spain , were willing to stay some time to see the court of spain , and what was worth observing ; but it being the latter part of the summer , we hastened away , and set out from madrid about the middle of october ; but when we came to the edge of navarre , we were alarmed , at several towns on the way , with an account that so much snow was falling on the french side of the mountains , that several travellers were obliged to come back to pampeluna , after having attempted at an extreme hazard to pass on .
when we came to pampeluna itself , we found it so indeed ; and to me , that had been always used to a hot climate , and to countries where i could scarce bear any clothes on , the cold was insufferable ; nor , indeed , was it more painful than surprising to come but ten days before out of old castile , where the weather was not only warm but very hot , and immediately to feel a wind from the pyrenean mountains so very keen , so severely cold , as to be intolerable and to endanger benumbing and perishing of our fingers and toes .
poor friday was really frightened when he saw the mountains all covered with snow , and felt cold weather , which he had never seen or felt before in his life .
to mend the matter , when we came to pampeluna it continued snowing with so much violence and so long , that the people said winter was come before its time ; and the roads , which were difficult before , were now quite impassable ; for , in a word , the snow lay in some places too thick for us to travel , and being not hard frozen , as is the case in the northern countries , there was no going without being in danger of being buried alive every step .
we stayed no less than twenty days at pampeluna ; when ( seeing the winter coming on , and no likelihood of its being better , for it was the severest winter all over europe that had been known in the memory of man ) i proposed that we should go away to fontarabia , and there take shipping for bordeaux , which was a very little voyage .
but , while i was considering this , there came in four french gentlemen , who , having been stopped on the french side of the passes , as we were on the spanish , had found out a guide , who , traversing the country near the head of languedoc , had brought them over the mountains by such ways that they were not much incommoded with the snow ; for where they met with snow in any quantity , they said it was frozen hard enough to bear them and their horses .
we sent for this guide , who told us he would undertake to carry us the same way , with no hazard from the snow , provided we were armed sufficiently to protect ourselves from wild beasts ; for , he said , in these great snows it was frequent for some wolves to show themselves at the foot of the mountains , being made ravenous for want of food , the ground being covered with snow . we told him we were well enough prepared for such creatures as they were , if he would insure us from a kind of two-legged wolves , which we were told we were in most danger from , especially on the french side of the mountains .
he satisfied us that there was no danger of that kind in the way that we were to go ; so we readily agreed to follow him , as did also twelve other gentlemen with their servants , some french , some spanish , who , as i said , had attempted to go , and were obliged to come back again .
accordingly , we set out from pampeluna with our guide on the 15th of november ; and indeed i was surprised when , instead of going forward , he came directly back with us on the same road that we came from madrid , about twenty miles ; when , having passed two rivers , and come into the plain country , we found ourselves in a warm climate again , where the country was pleasant , and no snow to be seen ; but , on a sudden , turning to his left , he approached the mountains another way ; and though it is true the hills and precipices looked dreadful , yet he made so many tours , such meanders , and led us by such winding ways , that we insensibly passed the height of the mountains without being much encumbered with the snow ; and all on a sudden he showed us the pleasant and fruitful provinces of languedoc and gascony , all green and flourishing , though at a great distance , and we had some rough way to pass still .
we were a little uneasy , however , when we found it snowed one whole day and a night so fast that we could not travel ; but he bid us be easy ; we should soon be past it all : we found , indeed , that we began to descend every day , and to come more north than before ; and so , depending upon our guide , we went on .
it was about two hours before night when , our guide being something before us , and not just in sight , out rushed three monstrous wolves , and after them a bear , from a hollow way adjoining to a thick wood ; two of the wolves made at the guide , and had he been far before us , he would have been devoured before we could have helped him ; one of them fastened upon his horse , and the other attacked the man with such violence , that he had not time , or presence of mind enough , to draw his pistol , but hallooed and cried out to us most lustily .
my man friday being next me , i bade him ride up and see what was the matter .
as soon as friday came in sight of the man , he hallooed out as loud as the other , " o master !
o master ! " but like a bold fellow , rode directly up to the poor man , and with his pistol shot the wolf in the head that attacked him .
it was happy for the poor man that it was my man friday ; for , having been used to such creatures in his country , he had no fear upon him , but went close up to him and shot him ; whereas , any other of us would have fired at a farther distance , and have perhaps either missed the wolf or endangered shooting the man .
but it was enough to have terrified a bolder man than i ; and , indeed , it alarmed all our company , when , with the noise of friday 's pistol , we heard on both sides the most dismal howling of wolves ; and the noise , redoubled by the echo of the mountains , appeared to us as if there had been a prodigious number of them ; and perhaps there was not such a few as that we had no cause of apprehension : however , as friday had killed this wolf , the other that had fastened upon the horse left him immediately , and fled , without doing him any damage , having happily fastened upon his head , where the bosses of the bridle had stuck in his teeth .
but the man was most hurt ; for the raging creature had bit him twice , once in the arm , and the other time a little above his knee ; and though he had made some defence , he was just tumbling down by the disorder of his horse , when friday came up and shot the wolf .
it is easy to suppose that at the noise of friday 's pistol we all mended our pace , and rode up as fast as the way , which was very difficult , would give us leave , to see what was the matter .
as soon as we came clear of the trees , which blinded us before , we saw clearly what had been the case , and how friday had disengaged the poor guide , though we did not presently discern what kind of creature it was he had killed .
but never was a fight managed so hardily , and in such a surprising manner as that which followed between friday and the bear , which gave us all , though at first we were surprised and afraid for him , the greatest diversion imaginable .
as the bear is a heavy , clumsy creature , and does not gallop as the wolf does , who is swift and light , so he has two particular qualities , which generally are the rule of his actions ; first , as to men , who are not his proper prey ( he does not usually attempt them , except they first attack him , unless he be excessively hungry , which it is probable might now be the case , the ground being covered with snow ) , if you do not meddle with him , he will not meddle with you ; but then you must take care to be very civil to him , and give him the road , for he is a very nice gentleman ; he will not go a step out of his way for a prince ; nay , if you are really afraid , your best way is to look another way and keep going on ; for sometimes if you stop , and stand still , and look steadfastly at him , he takes it for an affront ; but if you throw or toss anything at him , though it were but a bit of stick as big as your finger , he thinks himself abused , and sets all other business aside to pursue his revenge , and will have satisfaction in point of honour - that is his first quality : the next is , if he be once affronted , he will never leave you , night or day , till he has his revenge , but follows at a good round rate till he overtakes you .
my man friday had delivered our guide , and when we came up to him he was helping him off his horse , for the man was both hurt and frightened , when on a sudden we espied the bear come out of the wood ; and a monstrous one it was , the biggest by far that ever i saw .
we were all a little surprised when we saw him ; but when friday saw him , it was easy to see joy and courage in the fellow 's countenance . " o !
o !
o ! " says friday , three times , pointing to him ; " o master , you give me te leave , me shakee te hand with him ; me makee you good laugh . " i was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased .
" you fool , " says i , " he will eat you up . " - " eatee me up ! eatee me up ! " says friday , twice over again ; " me eatee him up ; me makee you good laugh ; you all stay here , me show you good laugh . "
so down he sits , and gets off his boots in a moment , and puts on a pair of pumps ( as we call the flat shoes they wear , and which he had in his pocket ) , gives my other servant his horse , and with his gun away he flew , swift like the wind .
the bear was walking softly on , and offered to meddle with nobody , till friday coming pretty near , calls to him , as if the bear could understand him . " hark ye , hark ye , " says friday , " me speakee with you . "
we followed at a distance , for now being down on the gascony side of the mountains , we were entered a vast forest , where the country was plain and pretty open , though it had many trees in it scattered here and there .
friday , who had , as we say , the heels of the bear , came up with him quickly , and took up a great stone , and threw it at him , and hit him just on the head , but did him no more harm than if he had thrown it against a wall ; but it answered friday 's end , for the rogue was so void of fear that he did it purely to make the bear follow him , and show us some laugh as he called it .
as soon as the bear felt the blow , and saw him , he turns about and comes after him , taking very long strides , and shuffling on at a strange rate , so as would have put a horse to a middling gallop ; away reins friday , and takes his course as if he ran towards us for help ; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear , and deliver my man ; though i was angry at him for bringing the bear back upon us , when he was going about his own business another way ; and especially i was angry that he had turned the bear upon us , and then ran away ; and i called out , " you dog ! is this your making us laugh ?
come away , and take your horse , that we may shoot the creature . "
he heard me , and cried out , " no shoot , no shoot ; stand still , and you get much laugh : " and as the nimble creature ran two feet for the bear 's one , he turned on a sudden on one side of us , and seeing a great oak-tree fit for his purpose , he beckoned to us to follow ; and doubling his pace , he got nimbly up the tree , laying his gun down upon the ground , at about five or six yards from the bottom of the tree .
the bear soon came to the tree , and we followed at a distance : the first thing he did he stopped at the gun , smelt at it , but let it lie , and up he scrambles into the tree , climbing like a cat , though so monstrous heavy .
i was amazed at the folly , as i thought it , of my man , and could not for my life see anything to laugh at , till seeing the bear get up the tree , we all rode near to him .
when we came to the tree , there was friday got out to the small end of a large branch , and the bear got about half-way to him .
as soon as the bear got out to that part where the limb of the tree was weaker , " ha ! " says he to us , " now you see me teachee the bear dance : " so he began jumping and shaking the bough , at which the bear began to totter , but stood still , and began to look behind him , to see how he should get back ; then , indeed , we did laugh heartily .
but friday had not done with him by a great deal ; when seeing him stand still , he called out to him again , as if he had supposed the bear could speak english , " what , you come no farther ? pray you come farther ; " so he left jumping and shaking the tree ; and the bear , just as if he understood what he said , did come a little farther ; then he began jumping again , and the bear stopped again .
we thought now was a good time to knock him in the head , and called to friday to stand still and we should shoot the bear : but he cried out earnestly , " oh , pray !
oh , pray ! no shoot , me shoot by and then : " he would have said by-and-by .
however , to shorten the story , friday danced so much , and the bear stood so ticklish , that we had laughing enough , but still could not imagine what the fellow would do : for first we thought he depended upon shaking the bear off ; and we found the bear was too cunning for that too ; for he would not go out far enough to be thrown down , but clung fast with his great broad claws and feet , so that we could not imagine what would be the end of it , and what the jest would be at last .
but friday put us out of doubt quickly : for seeing the bear cling fast to the bough , and that he would not be persuaded to come any farther , " well , well , " says friday , " you no come farther , me go ; you no come to me , me come to you ; " and upon this he went out to the smaller end , where it would bend with his weight , and gently let himself down by it , sliding down the bough till he came near enough to jump down on his feet , and away he ran to his gun , took it up , and stood still . " well , " said i to him , " friday , what will you do now ?
why don 't you shoot him ? " " no shoot , " says friday , " no yet ; me shoot now , me no kill ; me stay , give you one more laugh : " and , indeed , so he did ; for when the bear saw his enemy gone , he came back from the bough , where he stood , but did it very cautiously , looking behind him every step , and coming backward till he got into the body of the tree , then , with the same hinder end foremost , he came down the tree , grasping it with his claws , and moving one foot at a time , very leisurely .
at this juncture , and just before he could set his hind foot on the ground , friday stepped up close to him , clapped the muzzle of his piece into his ear , and shot him dead .
then the rogue turned about to see if we did not laugh ; and when he saw we were pleased by our looks , he began to laugh very loud .
" so we kill bear in my country , " says friday . " so you kill them ? " says i ; " why , you have no guns . " - " no , " says he , " no gun , but shoot great much long arrow . "
this was a good diversion to us ; but we were still in a wild place , and our guide very much hurt , and what to do we hardly knew ; the howling of wolves ran much in my head ; and , indeed , except the noise i once heard on the shore of africa , of which i have said something already , i never heard anything that filled me with so much horror .
these things , and the approach of night , called us off , or else , as friday would have had us , we should certainly have taken the skin of this monstrous creature off , which was worth saving ; but we had near three leagues to go , and our guide hastened us ; so we left him , and went forward on our journey .
the ground was still covered with snow , though not so deep and dangerous as on the mountains ; and the ravenous creatures , as we heard afterwards , were come down into the forest and plain country , pressed by hunger , to seek for food , and had done a great deal of mischief in the villages , where they surprised the country people , killed a great many of their sheep and horses , and some people too .
we had one dangerous place to pass , and our guide told us if there were more wolves in the country we should find them there ; and this was a small plain , surrounded with woods on every side , and a long , narrow defile , or lane , which we were to pass to get through the wood , and then we should come to the village where we were to lodge .
it was within half-an-hour of sunset when we entered the wood , and a little after sunset when we came into the plain : we met with nothing in the first wood , except that in a little plain within the wood , which was not above two furlongs over , we saw five great wolves cross the road , full speed , one after another , as if they had been in chase of some prey , and had it in view ; they took no notice of us , and were gone out of sight in a few moments .
upon this , our guide , who , by the way , was but a fainthearted fellow , bid us keep in a ready posture , for he believed there were more wolves a-coming .
we kept our arms ready , and our eyes about us ; but we saw no more wolves till we came through that wood , which was near half a league , and entered the plain .
as soon as we came into the plain , we had occasion enough to look about us .
the first object we met with was a dead horse ; that is to say , a poor horse which the wolves had killed , and at least a dozen of them at work , we could not say eating him , but picking his bones rather ; for they had eaten up all the flesh before .
we did not think fit to disturb them at their feast , neither did they take much notice of us .
friday would have let fly at them , but i would not suffer him by any means ; for i found we were like to have more business upon our hands than we were aware of .
we had not gone half over the plain when we began to hear the wolves howl in the wood on our left in a frightful manner , and presently after we saw about a hundred coming on directly towards us , all in a body , and most of them in a line , as regularly as an army drawn up by experienced officers .
i scarce knew in what manner to receive them , but found to draw ourselves in a close line was the only way ; so we formed in a moment ; but that we might not have too much interval , i ordered that only every other man should fire , and that the others , who had not fired , should stand ready to give them a second volley immediately , if they continued to advance upon us ; and then that those that had fired at first should not pretend to load their fusees again , but stand ready , every one with a pistol , for we were all armed with a fusee and a pair of pistols each man ; so we were , by this method , able to fire six volleys , half of us at a time ; however , at present we had no necessity ; for upon firing the first volley , the enemy made a full stop , being terrified as well with the noise as with the fire .
four of them being shot in the head , dropped ; several others were wounded , and went bleeding off , as we could see by the snow .
i found they stopped , but did not immediately retreat ; whereupon , remembering that i had been told that the fiercest creatures were terrified at the voice of a man , i caused all the company to halloo as loud as they could ; and i found the notion not altogether mistaken ; for upon our shout they began to retire and turn about .
i then ordered a second volley to be fired in their rear , which put them to the gallop , and away they went to the woods .
this gave us leisure to charge our pieces again ; and that we might lose no time , we kept going ; but we had but little more than loaded our fusees , and put ourselves in readiness , when we heard a terrible noise in the same wood on our left , only that it was farther onward , the same way we were to go .
the night was coming on , and the light began to be dusky , which made it worse on our side ; but the noise increasing , we could easily perceive that it was the howling and yelling of those hellish creatures ; and on a sudden we perceived three troops of wolves , one on our left , one behind us , and one in our front , so that we seemed to be surrounded with them : however , as they did not fall upon us , we kept our way forward , as fast as we could make our horses go , which , the way being very rough , was only a good hard trot .
in this manner , we came in view of the entrance of a wood , through which we were to pass , at the farther side of the plain ; but we were greatly surprised , when coming nearer the lane or pass , we saw a confused number of wolves standing just at the entrance .
on a sudden , at another opening of the wood , we heard the noise of a gun , and looking that way , out rushed a horse , with a saddle and a bridle on him , flying like the wind , and sixteen or seventeen wolves after him , full speed : the horse had the advantage of them ; but as we supposed that he could not hold it at that rate , we doubted not but they would get up with him at last : no question but they did .
but here we had a most horrible sight ; for riding up to the entrance where the horse came out , we found the carcasses of another horse and of two men , devoured by the ravenous creatures ; and one of the men was no doubt the same whom we heard fire the gun , for there lay a gun just by him fired off ; but as to the man , his head and the upper part of his body was eaten up .
this filled us with horror , and we knew not what course to take ; but the creatures resolved us soon , for they gathered about us presently , in hopes of prey ; and i verily believe there were three hundred of them .
it happened , very much to our advantage , that at the entrance into the wood , but a little way from it , there lay some large timber-trees , which had been cut down the summer before , and i suppose lay there for carriage .
i drew my little troop in among those trees , and placing ourselves in a line behind one long tree , i advised them all to alight , and keeping that tree before us for a breastwork , to stand in a triangle , or three fronts , enclosing our horses in the centre .
we did so , and it was well we did ; for never was a more furious charge than the creatures made upon us in this place . they came on with a growling kind of noise , and mounted the piece of timber , which , as i said , was our breastwork , as if they were only rushing upon their prey ; and this fury of theirs , it seems , was principally occasioned by their seeing our horses behind us .
i ordered our men to fire as before , every other man ; and they took their aim so sure that they killed several of the wolves at the first volley ; but there was a necessity to keep a continual firing , for they came on like devils , those behind pushing on those before .
when we had fired a second volley of our fusees , we thought they stopped a little , and i hoped they would have gone off , but it was but a moment , for others came forward again ; so we fired two volleys of our pistols ; and i believe in these four firings we had killed seventeen or eighteen of them , and lamed twice as many , yet they came on again .
i was loth to spend our shot too hastily ; so i called my servant , not my man friday , for he was better employed , for , with the greatest dexterity imaginable , he had charged my fusee and his own while we were engaged - but , as i said , i called my other man , and giving him a horn of powder , i had him lay a train all along the piece of timber , and let it be a large train .
he did so , and had but just time to get away , when the wolves came up to it , and some got upon it , when i , snapping an unchanged pistol close to the powder , set it on fire ; those that were upon the timber were scorched with it , and six or seven of them fell ; or rather jumped in among us with the force and fright of the fire ; we despatched these in an instant , and the rest were so frightened with the light , which the night - for it was now very near dark - made more terrible that they drew back a little ; upon which i ordered our last pistols to be fired off in one volley , and after that we gave a shout ; upon this the wolves turned tail , and we sallied immediately upon near twenty lame ones that we found struggling on the ground , and fell to cutting them with our swords , which answered our expectation , for the crying and howling they made was better understood by their fellows ; so that they all fled and left us .
we had , first and last , killed about threescore of them , and had it been daylight we had killed many more .
the field of battle being thus cleared , we made forward again , for we had still near a league to go .
we heard the ravenous creatures howl and yell in the woods as we went several times , and sometimes we fancied we saw some of them ; but the snow dazzling our eyes , we were not certain .
in about an hour more we came to the town where we were to lodge , which we found in a terrible fright and all in arms ; for , it seems , the night before the wolves and some bears had broken into the village , and put them in such terror that they were obliged to keep guard night and day , but especially in the night , to preserve their cattle , and indeed their people .
the next morning our guide was so ill , and his limbs swelled so much with the rankling of his two wounds , that he could go no farther ; so we were obliged to take a new guide here , and go to toulouse , where we found a warm climate , a fruitful , pleasant country , and no snow , no wolves , nor anything like them ; but when we told our story at toulouse , they told us it was nothing but what was ordinary in the great forest at the foot of the mountains , especially when the snow lay on the ground ; but they inquired much what kind of guide we had got who would venture to bring us that way in such a severe season , and told us it was surprising we were not all devoured .
when we told them how we placed ourselves and the horses in the middle , they blamed us exceedingly , and told us it was fifty to one but we had been all destroyed , for it was the sight of the horses which made the wolves so furious , seeing their prey , and that at other times they are really afraid of a gun ; but being excessively hungry , and raging on that account , the eagerness to come at the horses had made them senseless of danger , and that if we had not by the continual fire , and at last by the stratagem of the train of powder , mastered them , it had been great odds but that we had been torn to pieces ; whereas , had we been content to have sat still on horseback , and fired as horsemen , they would not have taken the horses so much for their own , when men were on their backs , as otherwise ; and withal , they told us that at last , if we had stood altogether , and left our horses , they would have been so eager to have devoured them , that we might have come off safe , especially having our firearms in our hands , being so many in number .
for my part , i was never so sensible of danger in my life ; for , seeing above three hundred devils come roaring and open-mouthed to devour us , and having nothing to shelter us or retreat to , i gave myself over for lost ; and , as it was , i believe i shall never care to cross those mountains again : i think i would much rather go a thousand leagues by sea , though i was sure to meet with a storm once a-week .
i have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my passage through france - nothing but what other travellers have given an account of with much more advantage than i can .
i travelled from toulouse to paris , and without any considerable stay came to calais , and landed safe at dover the 14th of january , after having had a severe cold season to travel in .
i was now come to the centre of my travels , and had in a little time all my new-discovered estate safe about me , the bills of exchange which i brought with me having been currently paid .
my principal guide and privy-counsellor was my good ancient widow , who , in gratitude for the money i had sent her , thought no pains too much nor care too great to employ for me ; and i trusted her so entirely that i was perfectly easy as to the security of my effects ; and , indeed , i was very happy from the beginning , and now to the end , in the unspotted integrity of this good gentlewoman .
and now , having resolved to dispose of my plantation in the brazils , i wrote to my old friend at lisbon , who , having offered it to the two merchants , the survivors of my trustees , who lived in the brazils , they accepted the offer , and remitted thirty-three thousand pieces of eight to a correspondent of theirs at lisbon to pay for it .
in return , i signed the instrument of sale in the form which they sent from lisbon , and sent it to my old man , who sent me the bills of exchange for thirty-two thousand eight hundred pieces of eight for the estate , reserving the payment of one hundred moidores a year to him ( the old man ) during his life , and fifty moidores afterwards to his son for his life , which i had promised them , and which the plantation was to make good as a rent-charge .
and thus i have given the first part of a life of fortune and adventure - a life of providence 's chequer-work , and of a variety which the world will seldom be able to show the like of ; beginning foolishly , but closing much more happily than any part of it ever gave me leave so much as to hope for .
any one would think that in this state of complicated good fortune i was past running any more hazards - and so , indeed , i had been , if other circumstances had concurred ; but i was inured to a wandering life , had no family , nor many relations ; nor , however rich , had i contracted fresh acquaintance ; and though i had sold my estate in the brazils , yet i could not keep that country out of my head , and had a great mind to be upon the wing again ; especially i could not resist the strong inclination i had to see my island , and to know if the poor spaniards were in being there .
my true friend , the widow , earnestly dissuaded me from it , and so far prevailed with me , that for almost seven years she prevented my running abroad , during which time i took my two nephews , the children of one of my brothers , into my care ; the eldest , having something of his own , i bred up as a gentleman , and gave him a settlement of some addition to his estate after my decease .
the other i placed with the captain of a ship ; and after five years , finding him a sensible , bold , enterprising young fellow , i put him into a good ship , and sent him to sea ; and this young fellow afterwards drew me in , as old as i was , to further adventures myself .
in the meantime , i in part settled myself here ; for , first of all , i married , and that not either to my disadvantage or dissatisfaction , and had three children , two sons and one daughter ; but my wife dying , and my nephew coming home with good success from a voyage to spain , my inclination to go abroad , and his importunity , prevailed , and engaged me to go in his ship as a private trader to the east indies ; this was in the year 1694 .
in this voyage i visited my new colony in the island , saw my successors the spaniards , had the old story of their lives and of the villains i left there ; how at first they insulted the poor spaniards , how they afterwards agreed , disagreed , united , separated , and how at last the spaniards were obliged to use violence with them ; how they were subjected to the spaniards , how honestly the spaniards used them - a history , if it were entered into , as full of variety and wonderful accidents as my own part - particularly , also , as to their battles with the caribbeans , who landed several times upon the island , and as to the improvement they made upon the island itself , and how five of them made an attempt upon the mainland , and brought away eleven men and five women prisoners , by which , at my coming , i found about twenty young children on the island .
here i stayed about twenty days , left them supplies of all necessary things , and particularly of arms , powder , shot , clothes , tools , and two workmen , which i had brought from england with me , viz. a carpenter and a smith .
besides this , i shared the lands into parts with them , reserved to myself the property of the whole , but gave them such parts respectively as they agreed on ; and having settled all things with them , and engaged them not to leave the place , i left them there .
from thence i touched at the brazils , from whence i sent a bark , which i bought there , with more people to the island ; and in it , besides other supplies , i sent seven women , being such as i found proper for service , or for wives to such as would take them .
as to the englishmen , i promised to send them some women from england , with a good cargo of necessaries , if they would apply themselves to planting - which i afterwards could not perform .
the fellows proved very honest and diligent after they were mastered and had their properties set apart for them .
i sent them , also , from the brazils , five cows , three of them being big with calf , some sheep , and some hogs , which when i came again were considerably increased .
but all these things , with an account how three hundred caribbees came and invaded them , and ruined their plantations , and how they fought with that whole number twice , and were at first defeated , and one of them killed ; but at last , a storm destroying their enemies ' canoes , they famished or destroyed almost all the rest , and renewed and recovered the possession of their plantation , and still lived upon the island .
all these things , with some very surprising incidents in some new adventures of my own , for ten years more , i shall give a farther account of in the second part of my story .
a study in scarlet
sir arthur conan doyle
part i .
( being a reprint from the reminiscences of john h. watson , m.d. , late of the army medical department . ) 2
chapter i. mr. sherlock holmes .
in the year 1878 i took my degree of doctor of medicine of the university of london , and proceeded to netley to go through the course prescribed for surgeons in the army . having completed my studies there , i was duly attached to the fifth northumberland fusiliers as assistant surgeon .
the regiment was stationed in india at the time , and before i could join it , the second afghan war had broken out .
on landing at bombay , i learned that my corps had advanced through the passes , and was already deep in the enemy 's country .
i followed , however , with many other officers who were in the same situation as myself , and succeeded in reaching candahar in safety , where i found my regiment , and at once entered upon my new duties .
the campaign brought honours and promotion to many , but for me it had nothing but misfortune and disaster .
i was removed from my brigade and attached to the berkshires , with whom i served at the fatal battle of maiwand . there i was struck on the shoulder by a jezail bullet , which shattered the bone and grazed the subclavian artery .
i should have fallen into the hands of the murderous ghazis had it not been for the devotion and courage shown by murray , my orderly , who threw me across a pack-horse , and succeeded in bringing me safely to the british lines .
worn with pain , and weak from the prolonged hardships which i had undergone , i was removed , with a great train of wounded sufferers , to the base hospital at peshawar .
here i rallied , and had already improved so far as to be able to walk about the wards , and even to bask a little upon the verandah , when i was struck down by enteric fever , that curse of our indian possessions .
for months my life was despaired of , and when at last i came to myself and became convalescent , i was so weak and emaciated that a medical board determined that not a day should be lost in sending me back to england .
i was dispatched , accordingly , in the troopship " orontes , " and landed a month later on portsmouth jetty , with my health irretrievably ruined , but with permission from a paternal government to spend the next nine months in attempting to improve it .
i had neither kith nor kin in england , and was therefore as free as air - or as free as an income of eleven shillings and sixpence a day will permit a man to be . under such circumstances , i naturally gravitated to london , that great cesspool into which all the loungers and idlers of the empire are irresistibly drained .
there i stayed for some time at a private hotel in the strand , leading a comfortless , meaningless existence , and spending such money as i had , considerably more freely than i ought .
so alarming did the state of my finances become , that i soon realized that i must either leave the metropolis and rusticate somewhere in the country , or that i must make a complete alteration in my style of living .
choosing the latter alternative , i began by making up my mind to leave the hotel , and to take up my quarters in some less pretentious and less expensive domicile .
on the very day that i had come to this conclusion , i was standing at the criterion bar , when some one tapped me on the shoulder , and turning round i recognized young stamford , who had been a dresser under me at barts .
the sight of a friendly face in the great wilderness of london is a pleasant thing indeed to a lonely man .
in old days stamford had never been a particular crony of mine , but now i hailed him with enthusiasm , and he , in his turn , appeared to be delighted to see me .
in the exuberance of my joy , i asked him to lunch with me at the holborn , and we started off together in a hansom .
" whatever have you been doing with yourself , watson ? " he asked in undisguised wonder , as we rattled through the crowded london streets .
" you are as thin as a lath and as brown as a nut . "
i gave him a short sketch of my adventures , and had hardly concluded it by the time that we reached our destination .
" poor devil ! " he said , commiseratingly , after he had listened to my misfortunes . " what are you up to now ? "
" looking for lodgings . " - i answered . " trying to solve the problem as to whether it is possible to get comfortable rooms at a reasonable price . "
" that 's a strange thing , " remarked my companion ; " you are the second man to-day that has used that expression to me . "
" and who was the first ? " i asked .
" a fellow who is working at the chemical laboratory up at the hospital .
he was bemoaning himself this morning because he could not get someone to go halves with him in some nice rooms which he had found , and which were too much for his purse . "
" by jove ! " i cried , " if he really wants someone to share the rooms and the expense , i am the very man for him .
i should prefer having a partner to being alone . "
young stamford looked rather strangely at me over his wine-glass .
" you don 't know sherlock holmes yet , " he said ; " perhaps you would not care for him as a constant companion . "
" why , what is there against him ? "
" oh , i didn 't say there was anything against him .
he is a little queer in his ideas - an enthusiast in some branches of science .
as far as i know he is a decent fellow enough . "
" a medical student , i suppose ? " said i .
" no - i have no idea what he intends to go in for .
i believe he is well up in anatomy , and he is a first-class chemist ; but , as far as i know , he has never taken out any systematic medical classes .
his studies are very desultory and eccentric , but he has amassed a lot of out-of-the way knowledge which would astonish his professors . "
" did you never ask him what he was going in for ? " i asked .
" no ; he is not a man that it is easy to draw out , though he can be communicative enough when the fancy seizes him . "
" i should like to meet him , " i said .
" if i am to lodge with anyone , i should prefer a man of studious and quiet habits .
i am not strong enough yet to stand much noise or excitement . i had enough of both in afghanistan to last me for the remainder of my natural existence .
how could i meet this friend of yours ? "
" he is sure to be at the laboratory , " returned my companion . " he either avoids the place for weeks , or else he works there from morning to night .
if you like , we shall drive round together after luncheon . "
" certainly , " i answered , and the conversation drifted away into other channels .
as we made our way to the hospital after leaving the holborn , stamford gave me a few more particulars about the gentleman whom i proposed to take as a fellow-lodger .
" you mustn 't blame me if you don 't get on with him , " he said ; " i know nothing more of him than i have learned from meeting him occasionally in the laboratory .
you proposed this arrangement , so you must not hold me responsible . "
" if we don 't get on it will be easy to part company , " i answered .
" it seems to me , stamford , " i added , looking hard at my companion , " that you have some reason for washing your hands of the matter .
is this fellow 's temper so formidable , or what is it ?
don 't be mealy-mouthed about it . "
" it is not easy to express the inexpressible , " he answered with a laugh .
" holmes is a little too scientific for my tastes - it approaches to cold-bloodedness .
i could imagine his giving a friend a little pinch of the latest vegetable alkaloid , not out of malevolence , you understand , but simply out of a spirit of inquiry in order to have an accurate idea of the effects .
to do him justice , i think that he would take it himself with the same readiness .
he appears to have a passion for definite and exact knowledge . "
" very right too . "
" yes , but it may be pushed to excess . when it comes to beating the subjects in the dissecting-rooms with a stick , it is certainly taking rather a bizarre shape . "
" beating the subjects ! "
" yes , to verify how far bruises may be produced after death . i saw him at it with my own eyes . "
" and yet you say he is not a medical student ? "
" no . heaven knows what the objects of his studies are .
but here we are , and you must form your own impressions about him . "
as he spoke , we turned down a narrow lane and passed through a small side-door , which opened into a wing of the great hospital .
it was familiar ground to me , and i needed no guiding as we ascended the bleak stone staircase and made our way down the long corridor with its vista of whitewashed wall and dun-coloured doors .
near the further end a low arched passage branched away from it and led to the chemical laboratory .
this was a lofty chamber , lined and littered with countless bottles .
broad , low tables were scattered about , which bristled with retorts , test-tubes , and little bunsen lamps , with their blue flickering flames . there was only one student in the room , who was bending over a distant table absorbed in his work .
at the sound of our steps he glanced round and sprang to his feet with a cry of pleasure .
" i 've found it ! i 've found it , " he shouted to my companion , running towards us with a test-tube in his hand .
" i have found a re-agent which is precipitated by hoemoglobin , 4 and by nothing else . "
had he discovered a gold mine , greater delight could not have shone upon his features .
watson , mr. sherlock holmes , " said stamford , introducing us .
" how are you ? " he said cordially , gripping my hand with a strength for which i should hardly have given him credit .
" you have been in afghanistan , i perceive . "
" how on earth did you know that ? " i asked in astonishment .
" never mind , " said he , chuckling to himself .
" the question now is about hoemoglobin .
no doubt you see the significance of this discovery of mine ? "
" it is interesting , chemically , no doubt , " i answered , " but practically - - "
" why , man , it is the most practical medico-legal discovery for years . don 't you see that it gives us an infallible test for blood stains .
come over here now ! " he seized me by the coat-sleeve in his eagerness , and drew me over to the table at which he had been working .
" let us have some fresh blood , " he said , digging a long bodkin into his finger , and drawing off the resulting drop of blood in a chemical pipette . " now , i add this small quantity of blood to a litre of water .
you perceive that the resulting mixture has the appearance of pure water .
the proportion of blood cannot be more than one in a million . i have no doubt , however , that we shall be able to obtain the characteristic reaction . "
as he spoke , he threw into the vessel a few white crystals , and then added some drops of a transparent fluid .
in an instant the contents assumed a dull mahogany colour , and a brownish dust was precipitated to the bottom of the glass jar .
" ha ! ha ! " he cried , clapping his hands , and looking as delighted as a child with a new toy .
" what do you think of that ? "
" it seems to be a very delicate test , " i remarked .
" beautiful ! beautiful !
the old guiacum test was very clumsy and uncertain .
so is the microscopic examination for blood corpuscles . the latter is valueless if the stains are a few hours old .
now , this appears to act as well whether the blood is old or new . had this test been invented , there are hundreds of men now walking the earth who would long ago have paid the penalty of their crimes . "
" indeed ! " i murmured .
" criminal cases are continually hinging upon that one point . a man is suspected of a crime months perhaps after it has been committed .
his linen or clothes are examined , and brownish stains discovered upon them . are they blood stains , or mud stains , or rust stains , or fruit stains , or what are they ?
that is a question which has puzzled many an expert , and why ?
because there was no reliable test .
now we have the sherlock holmes ' test , and there will no longer be any difficulty . "
his eyes fairly glittered as he spoke , and he put his hand over his heart and bowed as if to some applauding crowd conjured up by his imagination .
" you are to be congratulated , " i remarked , considerably surprised at his enthusiasm .
" there was the case of von bischoff at frankfort last year .
he would certainly have been hung had this test been in existence .
then there was mason of bradford , and the notorious muller , and lefevre of montpellier , and samson of new orleans .
i could name a score of cases in which it would have been decisive . "
" you seem to be a walking calendar of crime , " said stamford with a laugh . " you might start a paper on those lines .
" very interesting reading it might be made , too , " remarked sherlock holmes , sticking a small piece of plaster over the prick on his finger . " i have to be careful , " he continued , turning to me with a smile , " for i dabble with poisons a good deal . "
he held out his hand as he spoke , and i noticed that it was all mottled over with similar pieces of plaster , and discoloured with strong acids .
" we came here on business , " said stamford , sitting down on a high three-legged stool , and pushing another one in my direction with his foot .
" my friend here wants to take diggings , and as you were complaining that you could get no one to go halves with you , i thought that i had better bring you together . "
sherlock holmes seemed delighted at the idea of sharing his rooms with me . " i have my eye on a suite in baker street , " he said , " which would suit us down to the ground .
you don 't mind the smell of strong tobacco , i hope ? "
" i always smoke ' ship 's ' myself , " i answered .
" that 's good enough .
i generally have chemicals about , and occasionally do experiments . would that annoy you ? "
" by no means . "
" let me see - what are my other shortcomings .
i get in the dumps at times , and don 't open my mouth for days on end .
you must not think i am sulky when i do that . just let me alone , and i 'll soon be right .
what have you to confess now ?
it 's just as well for two fellows to know the worst of one another before they begin to live together . "
i laughed at this cross-examination . " i keep a bull pup , " i said , " and i object to rows because my nerves are shaken , and i get up at all sorts of ungodly hours , and i am extremely lazy .
i have another set of vices when i 'm well , but those are the principal ones at present . "
" do you include violin-playing in your category of rows ? " he asked , anxiously .
" it depends on the player , " i answered . " a well-played violin is a treat for the gods - a badly-played one - - "
" oh , that 's all right , " he cried , with a merry laugh . " i think we may consider the thing as settled - that is , if the rooms are agreeable to you . "
" when shall we see them ? "
" call for me here at noon to-morrow , and we 'll go together and settle everything , " he answered .
" all right - noon exactly , " said i , shaking his hand .
we left him working among his chemicals , and we walked together towards my hotel .
" by the way , " i asked suddenly , stopping and turning upon stamford , " how the deuce did he know that i had come from afghanistan ? "
my companion smiled an enigmatical smile .
" that 's just his little peculiarity , " he said . " a good many people have wanted to know how he finds things out . "
" oh ! a mystery is it ? " i cried , rubbing my hands .
" this is very piquant . i am much obliged to you for bringing us together .
'the proper study of mankind is man , ' you know . "
" you must study him , then , " stamford said , as he bade me good-bye .
" you 'll find him a knotty problem , though . i 'll wager he learns more about you than you about him .
good-bye . "
" good-bye , " i answered , and strolled on to my hotel , considerably interested in my new acquaintance .
chapter ii . the science of deduction .
we met next day as he had arranged , and inspected the rooms at no. 221b , 5 baker street , of which he had spoken at our meeting .
they consisted of a couple of comfortable bed-rooms and a single large airy sitting-room , cheerfully furnished , and illuminated by two broad windows .
so desirable in every way were the apartments , and so moderate did the terms seem when divided between us , that the bargain was concluded upon the spot , and we at once entered into possession . that very evening i moved my things round from the hotel , and on the following morning sherlock holmes followed me with several boxes and portmanteaus .
for a day or two we were busily employed in unpacking and laying out our property to the best advantage .
that done , we gradually began to settle down and to accommodate ourselves to our new surroundings .
holmes was certainly not a difficult man to live with . he was quiet in his ways , and his habits were regular .
it was rare for him to be up after ten at night , and he had invariably breakfasted and gone out before i rose in the morning . sometimes he spent his day at the chemical laboratory , sometimes in the dissecting-rooms , and occasionally in long walks , which appeared to take him into the lowest portions of the city .
nothing could exceed his energy when the working fit was upon him ; but now and again a reaction would seize him , and for days on end he would lie upon the sofa in the sitting-room , hardly uttering a word or moving a muscle from morning to night .
on these occasions i have noticed such a dreamy , vacant expression in his eyes , that i might have suspected him of being addicted to the use of some narcotic , had not the temperance and cleanliness of his whole life forbidden such a notion .
as the weeks went by , my interest in him and my curiosity as to his aims in life , gradually deepened and increased .
his very person and appearance were such as to strike the attention of the most casual observer .
in height he was rather over six feet , and so excessively lean that he seemed to be considerably taller .
his eyes were sharp and piercing , save during those intervals of torpor to which i have alluded ; and his thin , hawk-like nose gave his whole expression an air of alertness and decision .
his chin , too , had the prominence and squareness which mark the man of determination .
his hands were invariably blotted with ink and stained with chemicals , yet he was possessed of extraordinary delicacy of touch , as i frequently had occasion to observe when i watched him manipulating his fragile philosophical instruments .
the reader may set me down as a hopeless busybody , when i confess how much this man stimulated my curiosity , and how often i endeavoured to break through the reticence which he showed on all that concerned himself .
before pronouncing judgment , however , be it remembered , how objectless was my life , and how little there was to engage my attention .
my health forbade me from venturing out unless the weather was exceptionally genial , and i had no friends who would call upon me and break the monotony of my daily existence .
under these circumstances , i eagerly hailed the little mystery which hung around my companion , and spent much of my time in endeavouring to unravel it .
he was not studying medicine .
he had himself , in reply to a question , confirmed stamford 's opinion upon that point .
neither did he appear to have pursued any course of reading which might fit him for a degree in science or any other recognized portal which would give him an entrance into the learned world .
yet his zeal for certain studies was remarkable , and within eccentric limits his knowledge was so extraordinarily ample and minute that his observations have fairly astounded me .
surely no man would work so hard or attain such precise information unless he had some definite end in view .
desultory readers are seldom remarkable for the exactness of their learning .
no man burdens his mind with small matters unless he has some very good reason for doing so .
his ignorance was as remarkable as his knowledge .
of contemporary literature , philosophy and politics he appeared to know next to nothing .
upon my quoting thomas carlyle , he inquired in the naivest way who he might be and what he had done .
my surprise reached a climax , however , when i found incidentally that he was ignorant of the copernican theory and of the composition of the solar system .
that any civilized human being in this nineteenth century should not be aware that the earth travelled round the sun appeared to be to me such an extraordinary fact that i could hardly realize it .
" you appear to be astonished , " he said , smiling at my expression of surprise .
" now that i do know it i shall do my best to forget it . "
" to forget it ! "
" you see , " he explained , " i consider that a man 's brain originally is like a little empty attic , and you have to stock it with such furniture as you choose .
a fool takes in all the lumber of every sort that he comes across , so that the knowledge which might be useful to him gets crowded out , or at best is jumbled up with a lot of other things so that he has a difficulty in laying his hands upon it .
now the skilful workman is very careful indeed as to what he takes into his brain-attic .
he will have nothing but the tools which may help him in doing his work , but of these he has a large assortment , and all in the most perfect order .
it is a mistake to think that that little room has elastic walls and can distend to any extent .
depend upon it there comes a time when for every addition of knowledge you forget something that you knew before .
it is of the highest importance , therefore , not to have useless facts elbowing out the useful ones . "
" but the solar system ! " i protested .
" what the deuce is it to me ? " he interrupted impatiently ; " you say that we go round the sun . if we went round the moon it would not make a pennyworth of difference to me or to my work . "
i was on the point of asking him what that work might be , but something in his manner showed me that the question would be an unwelcome one .
i pondered over our short conversation , however , and endeavoured to draw my deductions from it .
he said that he would acquire no knowledge which did not bear upon his object .
therefore all the knowledge which he possessed was such as would be useful to him .
i enumerated in my own mind all the various points upon which he had shown me that he was exceptionally well-informed . i even took a pencil and jotted them down .
i could not help smiling at the document when i had completed it .
it ran in this way -
sherlock holmes - his limits .
1 .
knowledge of literature . - nil .
2 . philosophy . - nil .
3 . astronomy . - nil .
4 .
politics . - feeble .
5 .
botany . - variable .
well up in belladonna , opium , and poisons generally . knows nothing of practical gardening .
6 . geology . - practical , but limited .
tells at a glance different soils from each other . after walks has shown me splashes upon his trousers , and told me by their colour and consistence in what part of london he had received them .
7 .
chemistry . - profound .
8 .
anatomy . - accurate , but unsystematic .
9 . sensational literature . - immense .
he appears to know every detail of every horror perpetrated in the century .
10 . plays the violin well .
11 . is an expert singlestick player , boxer , and swordsman .
12 . has a good practical knowledge of british law .
when i had got so far in my list i threw it into the fire in despair .
" if i can only find what the fellow is driving at by reconciling all these accomplishments , and discovering a calling which needs them all , " i said to myself , " i may as well give up the attempt at once . "
i see that i have alluded above to his powers upon the violin .
these were very remarkable , but as eccentric as all his other accomplishments .
that he could play pieces , and difficult pieces , i knew well , because at my request he has played me some of mendelssohn 's lieder , and other favourites .
when left to himself , however , he would seldom produce any music or attempt any recognized air .
leaning back in his arm-chair of an evening , he would close his eyes and scrape carelessly at the fiddle which was thrown across his knee .
sometimes the chords were sonorous and melancholy . occasionally they were fantastic and cheerful .
clearly they reflected the thoughts which possessed him , but whether the music aided those thoughts , or whether the playing was simply the result of a whim or fancy was more than i could determine .
i might have rebelled against these exasperating solos had it not been that he usually terminated them by playing in quick succession a whole series of my favourite airs as a slight compensation for the trial upon my patience .
during the first week or so we had no callers , and i had begun to think that my companion was as friendless a man as i was myself . presently , however , i found that he had many acquaintances , and those in the most different classes of society .
there was one little sallow rat-faced , dark-eyed fellow who was introduced to me as mr. lestrade , and who came three or four times in a single week .
one morning a young girl called , fashionably dressed , and stayed for half an hour or more .
the same afternoon brought a grey-headed , seedy visitor , looking like a jew pedlar , who appeared to me to be much excited , and who was closely followed by a slip-shod elderly woman .
on another occasion an old white-haired gentleman had an interview with my companion ; and on another a railway porter in his velveteen uniform .
when any of these nondescript individuals put in an appearance , sherlock holmes used to beg for the use of the sitting-room , and i would retire to my bed-room .
he always apologized to me for putting me to this inconvenience . " i have to use this room as a place of business , " he said , " and these people are my clients . "
again i had an opportunity of asking him a point blank question , and again my delicacy prevented me from forcing another man to confide in me .
i imagined at the time that he had some strong reason for not alluding to it , but he soon dispelled the idea by coming round to the subject of his own accord .
it was upon the 4th of march , as i have good reason to remember , that i rose somewhat earlier than usual , and found that sherlock holmes had not yet finished his breakfast .
the landlady had become so accustomed to my late habits that my place had not been laid nor my coffee prepared .
with the unreasonable petulance of mankind i rang the bell and gave a curt intimation that i was ready .
then i picked up a magazine from the table and attempted to while away the time with it , while my companion munched silently at his toast .
one of the articles had a pencil mark at the heading , and i naturally began to run my eye through it .
its somewhat ambitious title was " the book of life , " and it attempted to show how much an observant man might learn by an accurate and systematic examination of all that came in his way .
it struck me as being a remarkable mixture of shrewdness and of absurdity . the reasoning was close and intense , but the deductions appeared to me to be far-fetched and exaggerated .
the writer claimed by a momentary expression , a twitch of a muscle or a glance of an eye , to fathom a man 's inmost thoughts .
deceit , according to him , was an impossibility in the case of one trained to observation and analysis . his conclusions were as infallible as so many propositions of euclid .
so startling would his results appear to the uninitiated that until they learned the processes by which he had arrived at them they might well consider him as a necromancer .
" from a drop of water , " said the writer , " a logician could infer the possibility of an atlantic or a niagara without having seen or heard of one or the other .
so all life is a great chain , the nature of which is known whenever we are shown a single link of it .
like all other arts , the science of deduction and analysis is one which can only be acquired by long and patient study nor is life long enough to allow any mortal to attain the highest possible perfection in it .
before turning to those moral and mental aspects of the matter which present the greatest difficulties , let the enquirer begin by mastering more elementary problems .
let him , on meeting a fellow-mortal , learn at a glance to distinguish the history of the man , and the trade or profession to which he belongs .
puerile as such an exercise may seem , it sharpens the faculties of observation , and teaches one where to look and what to look for .
by a man 's finger nails , by his coat-sleeve , by his boot , by his trouser knees , by the callosities of his forefinger and thumb , by his expression , by his shirt cuffs - by each of these things a man 's calling is plainly revealed .
that all united should fail to enlighten the competent enquirer in any case is almost inconceivable . "
" what ineffable twaddle ! " i cried , slapping the magazine down on the table , " i never read such rubbish in my life . "
" what is it ? " asked sherlock holmes .
" why , this article , " i said , pointing at it with my egg spoon as i sat down to my breakfast .
" i see that you have read it since you have marked it .
i don 't deny that it is smartly written . it irritates me though .
it is evidently the theory of some arm-chair lounger who evolves all these neat little paradoxes in the seclusion of his own study .
it is not practical .
i should like to see him clapped down in a third class carriage on the underground , and asked to give the trades of all his fellow-travellers . i would lay a thousand to one against him . "
" you would lose your money , " sherlock holmes remarked calmly .
" as for the article i wrote it myself . "
" you ! "
" yes , i have a turn both for observation and for deduction .
the theories which i have expressed there , and which appear to you to be so chimerical are really extremely practical - so practical that i depend upon them for my bread and cheese . "
" and how ? " i asked involuntarily .
" well , i have a trade of my own . i suppose i am the only one in the world .
i 'm a consulting detective , if you can understand what that is . here in london we have lots of government detectives and lots of private ones .
when these fellows are at fault they come to me , and i manage to put them on the right scent .
they lay all the evidence before me , and i am generally able , by the help of my knowledge of the history of crime , to set them straight .
there is a strong family resemblance about misdeeds , and if you have all the details of a thousand at your finger ends , it is odd if you can 't unravel the thousand and first .
lestrade is a well-known detective .
he got himself into a fog recently over a forgery case , and that was what brought him here . "
" and these other people ? "
" they are mostly sent on by private inquiry agencies .
they are all people who are in trouble about something , and want a little enlightening .
i listen to their story , they listen to my comments , and then i pocket my fee . "
" but do you mean to say , " i said , " that without leaving your room you can unravel some knot which other men can make nothing of , although they have seen every detail for themselves ? "
" quite so .
i have a kind of intuition that way .
now and again a case turns up which is a little more complex .
then i have to bustle about and see things with my own eyes .
you see i have a lot of special knowledge which i apply to the problem , and which facilitates matters wonderfully .
those rules of deduction laid down in that article which aroused your scorn , are invaluable to me in practical work .
observation with me is second nature .
you appeared to be surprised when i told you , on our first meeting , that you had come from afghanistan . "
" you were told , no doubt . "
" nothing of the sort .
i knew you came from afghanistan .
from long habit the train of thoughts ran so swiftly through my mind , that i arrived at the conclusion without being conscious of intermediate steps .
there were such steps , however .
the train of reasoning ran , ' here is a gentleman of a medical type , but with the air of a military man .
clearly an army doctor , then . he has just come from the tropics , for his face is dark , and that is not the natural tint of his skin , for his wrists are fair .
he has undergone hardship and sickness , as his haggard face says clearly .
his left arm has been injured . he holds it in a stiff and unnatural manner .
where in the tropics could an english army doctor have seen much hardship and got his arm wounded ? clearly in afghanistan . '
the whole train of thought did not occupy a second . i then remarked that you came from afghanistan , and you were astonished . "
" it is simple enough as you explain it , " i said , smiling .
" you remind me of edgar allen poe 's dupin .
i had no idea that such individuals did exist outside of stories . "
sherlock holmes rose and lit his pipe . " no doubt you think that you are complimenting me in comparing me to dupin , " he observed .
" now , in my opinion , dupin was a very inferior fellow .
that trick of his of breaking in on his friends ' thoughts with an apropos remark after a quarter of an hour 's silence is really very showy and superficial .
he had some analytical genius , no doubt ; but he was by no means such a phenomenon as poe appeared to imagine . "
i asked . " does lecoq come up to your idea of a detective ? "
sherlock holmes sniffed sardonically . " lecoq was a miserable bungler , " he said , in an angry voice ; " he had only one thing to recommend him , and that was his energy .
that book made me positively ill .
the question was how to identify an unknown prisoner .
i could have done it in twenty-four hours .
lecoq took six months or so . it might be made a text-book for detectives to teach them what to avoid . "
i felt rather indignant at having two characters whom i had admired treated in this cavalier style .
i walked over to the window , and stood looking out into the busy street .
" this fellow may be very clever , " i said to myself , " but he is certainly very conceited . "
" there are no crimes and no criminals in these days , " he said , querulously .
" what is the use of having brains in our profession .
i know well that i have it in me to make my name famous . no man lives or has ever lived who has brought the same amount of study and of natural talent to the detection of crime which i have done .
and what is the result ?
there is no crime to detect , or , at most , some bungling villainy with a motive so transparent that even a scotland yard official can see through it . "
i was still annoyed at his bumptious style of conversation . i thought it best to change the topic .
" i wonder what that fellow is looking for ? " i asked , pointing to a stalwart , plainly-dressed individual who was walking slowly down the other side of the street , looking anxiously at the numbers .
he had a large blue envelope in his hand , and was evidently the bearer of a message .
" you mean the retired sergeant of marines , " said sherlock holmes .
" brag and bounce ! " thought i to myself . " he knows that i cannot verify his guess . "
the thought had hardly passed through my mind when the man whom we were watching caught sight of the number on our door , and ran rapidly across the roadway .
we heard a loud knock , a deep voice below , and heavy steps ascending the stair .
" for mr. sherlock holmes , " he said , stepping into the room and handing my friend the letter .
here was an opportunity of taking the conceit out of him . he little thought of this when he made that random shot .
" may i ask , my lad , " i said , in the blandest voice , " what your trade may be ? "
" commissionaire , sir , " he said , gruffly . " uniform away for repairs . "
" and you were ? " i asked , with a slightly malicious glance at my companion .
" a sergeant , sir , royal marine light infantry , sir .
no answer ?
right , sir . "
he clicked his heels together , raised his hand in a salute , and was gone .
chapter iii . the lauriston garden mystery 6
i confess that i was considerably startled by this fresh proof of the practical nature of my companion 's theories . my respect for his powers of analysis increased wondrously .
there still remained some lurking suspicion in my mind , however , that the whole thing was a pre-arranged episode , intended to dazzle me , though what earthly object he could have in taking me in was past my comprehension .
when i looked at him he had finished reading the note , and his eyes had assumed the vacant , lack-lustre expression which showed mental abstraction .
" how in the world did you deduce that ? " i asked .
" deduce what ? " said he , petulantly .
" why , that he was a retired sergeant of marines . "
" i have no time for trifles , " he answered , brusquely ; then with a smile , " excuse my rudeness . you broke the thread of my thoughts ; but perhaps it is as well .
so you actually were not able to see that that man was a sergeant of marines ? "
" no , indeed . "
" it was easier to know it than to explain why i knew it .
if you were asked to prove that two and two made four , you might find some difficulty , and yet you are quite sure of the fact .
even across the street i could see a great blue anchor tattooed on the back of the fellow 's hand .
that smacked of the sea .
he had a military carriage , however , and regulation side whiskers .
there we have the marine . he was a man with some amount of self-importance and a certain air of command .
you must have observed the way in which he held his head and swung his cane .
a steady , respectable , middle-aged man , too , on the face of him - all facts which led me to believe that he had been a sergeant . "
" wonderful ! " i ejaculated .
" commonplace , " said holmes , though i thought from his expression that he was pleased at my evident surprise and admiration . " i said just now that there were no criminals .
" why , " i cried , as i cast my eye over it , " this is terrible ! "
" it does seem to be a little out of the common , " he remarked , calmly .
" would you mind reading it to me aloud ? "
this is the letter which i read to him - -
" my dear mr. sherlock holmes , -
" there has been a bad business during the night at 3 , lauriston gardens , off the brixton road .
our man on the beat saw a light there about two in the morning , and as the house was an empty one , suspected that something was amiss .
he found the door open , and in the front room , which is bare of furniture , discovered the body of a gentleman , well dressed , and having cards in his pocket bearing the name of ' enoch j. drebber , cleveland , ohio , u.s.a . '
there had been no robbery , nor is there any evidence as to how the man met his death .
there are marks of blood in the room , but there is no wound upon his person .
we are at a loss as to how he came into the empty house ; indeed , the whole affair is a puzzler .
if you can come round to the house any time before twelve , you will find me there .
i have left everything in statu quo until i hear from you .
if you are unable to come i shall give you fuller details , and would esteem it a great kindness if you would favour me with your opinion .
yours faithfully ,
" tobias gregson . "
" gregson is the smartest of the scotland yarders , " my friend remarked ; " he and lestrade are the pick of a bad lot .
they are both quick and energetic , but conventional - shockingly so .
they have their knives into one another , too . they are as jealous as a pair of professional beauties .
there will be some fun over this case if they are both put upon the scent . "
i was amazed at the calm way in which he rippled on .
" surely there is not a moment to be lost , " i cried , " shall i go and order you a cab ? "
" i 'm not sure about whether i shall go .
i am the most incurably lazy devil that ever stood in shoe leather - that is , when the fit is on me , for i can be spry enough at times . "
" why , it is just such a chance as you have been longing for . "
" my dear fellow , what does it matter to me .
supposing i unravel the whole matter , you may be sure that gregson , lestrade , and co. will pocket all the credit .
that comes of being an unofficial personage . "
" but he begs you to help him . "
he knows that i am his superior , and acknowledges it to me ; but he would cut his tongue out before he would own it to any third person . however , we may as well go and have a look .
i shall work it out on my own hook . i may have a laugh at them if i have nothing else .
come on ! "
he hustled on his overcoat , and bustled about in a way that showed that an energetic fit had superseded the apathetic one .
" get your hat , " he said .
" you wish me to come ? "
" yes , if you have nothing better to do . "
a minute later we were both in a hansom , driving furiously for the brixton road .
it was a foggy , cloudy morning , and a dun-coloured veil hung over the house-tops , looking like the reflection of the mud-coloured streets beneath .
my companion was in the best of spirits , and prattled away about cremona fiddles , and the difference between a stradivarius and an amati .
as for myself , i was silent , for the dull weather and the melancholy business upon which we were engaged , depressed my spirits .
" you don 't seem to give much thought to the matter in hand , " i said at last , interrupting holmes ' musical disquisition .
" no data yet , " he answered . " it is a capital mistake to theorize before you have all the evidence .
" you will have your data soon , " i remarked , pointing with my finger ; " this is the brixton road , and that is the house , if i am not very much mistaken . "
" so it is .
stop , driver , stop ! "
we were still a hundred yards or so from it , but he insisted upon our alighting , and we finished our journey upon foot .
number 3 , lauriston gardens wore an ill-omened and minatory look . it was one of four which stood back some little way from the street , two being occupied and two empty .
the latter looked out with three tiers of vacant melancholy windows , which were blank and dreary , save that here and there a " to let " card had developed like a cataract upon the bleared panes .
a small garden sprinkled over with a scattered eruption of sickly plants separated each of these houses from the street , and was traversed by a narrow pathway , yellowish in colour , and consisting apparently of a mixture of clay and of gravel .
the whole place was very sloppy from the rain which had fallen through the night . the garden was bounded by a three-foot brick wall with a fringe of wood rails upon the top , and against this wall was leaning a stalwart police constable , surrounded by a small knot of loafers , who craned their necks and strained their eyes in the vain hope of catching some glimpse of the proceedings within .
i had imagined that sherlock holmes would at once have hurried into the house and plunged into a study of the mystery . nothing appeared to be further from his intention .
with an air of nonchalance which , under the circumstances , seemed to me to border upon affectation , he lounged up and down the pavement , and gazed vacantly at the ground , the sky , the opposite houses and the line of railings .
having finished his scrutiny , he proceeded slowly down the path , or rather down the fringe of grass which flanked the path , keeping his eyes riveted upon the ground .
twice he stopped , and once i saw him smile , and heard him utter an exclamation of satisfaction .
there were many marks of footsteps upon the wet clayey soil , but since the police had been coming and going over it , i was unable to see how my companion could hope to learn anything from it .
still i had had such extraordinary evidence of the quickness of his perceptive faculties , that i had no doubt that he could see a great deal which was hidden from me .
at the door of the house we were met by a tall , white-faced , flaxen-haired man , with a notebook in his hand , who rushed forward and wrung my companion 's hand with effusion .
" it is indeed kind of you to come , " he said , " i have had everything left untouched . "
" except that ! " my friend answered , pointing at the pathway . " if a herd of buffaloes had passed along there could not be a greater mess .
no doubt , however , you had drawn your own conclusions , gregson , before you permitted this . "
" i have had so much to do inside the house , " the detective said evasively . " my colleague , mr .
holmes glanced at me and raised his eyebrows sardonically .
" with two such men as yourself and lestrade upon the ground , there will not be much for a third party to find out , " he said .
gregson rubbed his hands in a self-satisfied way .
" i think we have done all that can be done , " he answered ; " it 's a queer case though , and i knew your taste for such things . "
" you did not come here in a cab ? " asked sherlock holmes .
" no , sir . "
" nor lestrade ? "
" no , sir . "
" then let us go and look at the room . "
with which inconsequent remark he strode on into the house , followed by gregson , whose features expressed his astonishment .
a short passage , bare planked and dusty , led to the kitchen and offices . two doors opened out of it to the left and to the right .
one of these had obviously been closed for many weeks . the other belonged to the dining-room , which was the apartment in which the mysterious affair had occurred .
holmes walked in , and i followed him with that subdued feeling at my heart which the presence of death inspires .
it was a large square room , looking all the larger from the absence of all furniture .
a vulgar flaring paper adorned the walls , but it was blotched in places with mildew , and here and there great strips had become detached and hung down , exposing the yellow plaster beneath .
opposite the door was a showy fireplace , surmounted by a mantelpiece of imitation white marble . on one corner of this was stuck the stump of a red wax candle .
the solitary window was so dirty that the light was hazy and uncertain , giving a dull grey tinge to everything , which was intensified by the thick layer of dust which coated the whole apartment .
all these details i observed afterwards . at present my attention was centred upon the single grim motionless figure which lay stretched upon the boards , with vacant sightless eyes staring up at the discoloured ceiling .
it was that of a man about forty-three or forty-four years of age , middle-sized , broad shouldered , with crisp curling black hair , and a short stubbly beard .
he was dressed in a heavy broadcloth frock coat and waistcoat , with light-coloured trousers , and immaculate collar and cuffs .
a top hat , well brushed and trim , was placed upon the floor beside him .
his hands were clenched and his arms thrown abroad , while his lower limbs were interlocked as though his death struggle had been a grievous one .
on his rigid face there stood an expression of horror , and as it seemed to me , of hatred , such as i have never seen upon human features .
this malignant and terrible contortion , combined with the low forehead , blunt nose , and prognathous jaw gave the dead man a singularly simious and ape-like appearance , which was increased by his writhing , unnatural posture .
i have seen death in many forms , but never has it appeared to me in a more fearsome aspect than in that dark grimy apartment , which looked out upon one of the main arteries of suburban london .
lestrade , lean and ferret-like as ever , was standing by the doorway , and greeted my companion and myself .
" this case will make a stir , sir , " he remarked .
" it beats anything i have seen , and i am no chicken . "
" there is no clue ? " said gregson .
" none at all , " chimed in lestrade .
sherlock holmes approached the body , and , kneeling down , examined it intently . " you are sure that there is no wound ? " he asked , pointing to numerous gouts and splashes of blood which lay all round .
" positive ! " cried both detectives .
" then , of course , this blood belongs to a second individual - presumably the murderer , if murder has been committed .
it reminds me of the circumstances attendant on the death of van jansen , in utrecht , in the year ' 34 .
do you remember the case , gregson ? "
" no , sir . "
" read it up - you really should . there is nothing new under the sun .
as he spoke , his nimble fingers were flying here , there , and everywhere , feeling , pressing , unbuttoning , examining , while his eyes wore the same far-away expression which i have already remarked upon .
so swiftly was the examination made , that one would hardly have guessed the minuteness with which it was conducted .
finally , he sniffed the dead man 's lips , and then glanced at the soles of his patent leather boots .
" he has not been moved at all ? " he asked .
" no more than was necessary for the purposes of our examination . "
" you can take him to the mortuary now , " he said . " there is nothing more to be learned . "
gregson had a stretcher and four men at hand . at his call they entered the room , and the stranger was lifted and carried out .
as they raised him , a ring tinkled down and rolled across the floor . lestrade grabbed it up and stared at it with mystified eyes .
" it 's a woman 's wedding-ring . " he held it out , as he spoke , upon the palm of his hand .
we all gathered round him and gazed at it . there could be no doubt that that circlet of plain gold had once adorned the finger of a bride .
" this complicates matters , " said gregson . " heaven knows , they were complicated enough before . "
" you 're sure it doesn 't simplify them ? " observed holmes .
" there 's nothing to be learned by staring at it . what did you find in his pockets ? "
" we have it all here , " said gregson , pointing to a litter of objects upon one of the bottom steps of the stairs . " a gold watch , no .
gold ring , with masonic device . gold pin - bull-dog 's head , with rubies as eyes .
russian leather card-case , with cards of enoch j. drebber of cleveland , corresponding with the e. j. d. upon the linen . no purse , but loose money to the extent of seven pounds thirteen .
" at what address ? "
" american exchange , strand - to be left till called for .
they are both from the guion steamship company , and refer to the sailing of their boats from liverpool .
it is clear that this unfortunate man was about to return to new york . "
" have you made any inquiries as to this man , stangerson ? "
" i did it at once , sir , " said gregson .
" i have had advertisements sent to all the newspapers , and one of my men has gone to the american exchange , but he has not returned yet . "
" have you sent to cleveland ? "
" we telegraphed this morning . "
" how did you word your inquiries ? "
" we simply detailed the circumstances , and said that we should be glad of any information which could help us . "
" you did not ask for particulars on any point which appeared to you to be crucial ? "
" i asked about stangerson . "
" nothing else ?
is there no circumstance on which this whole case appears to hinge ?
will you not telegraph again ? "
" i have said all i have to say , " said gregson , in an offended voice .
sherlock holmes chuckled to himself , and appeared to be about to make some remark , when lestrade , who had been in the front room while we were holding this conversation in the hall , reappeared upon the scene , rubbing his hands in a pompous and self-satisfied manner .
" mr. gregson , " he said , " i have just made a discovery of the highest importance , and one which would have been overlooked had i not made a careful examination of the walls . "
the little man 's eyes sparkled as he spoke , and he was evidently in a state of suppressed exultation at having scored a point against his colleague .
" come here , " he said , bustling back into the room , the atmosphere of which felt clearer since the removal of its ghastly inmate .
" now , stand there ! "
he struck a match on his boot and held it up against the wall .
" look at that ! " he said , triumphantly .
i have remarked that the paper had fallen away in parts .
in this particular corner of the room a large piece had peeled off , leaving a yellow square of coarse plastering .
across this bare space there was scrawled in blood-red letters a single word -
rache .
" what do you think of that ? " cried the detective , with the air of a showman exhibiting his show .
" this was overlooked because it was in the darkest corner of the room , and no one thought of looking there .
the murderer has written it with his or her own blood .
see this smear where it has trickled down the wall !
that disposes of the idea of suicide anyhow .
why was that corner chosen to write it on ?
i will tell you .
see that candle on the mantelpiece . it was lit at the time , and if it was lit this corner would be the brightest instead of the darkest portion of the wall . "
" and what does it mean now that you have found it ? " asked gregson in a depreciatory voice .
" mean ?
why , it means that the writer was going to put the female name rachel , but was disturbed before he or she had time to finish .
you mark my words , when this case comes to be cleared up you will find that a woman named rachel has something to do with it . it 's all very well for you to laugh , mr .
sherlock holmes . you may be very smart and clever , but the old hound is the best , when all is said and done . "
" i really beg your pardon ! " said my companion , who had ruffled the little man 's temper by bursting into an explosion of laughter .
" you certainly have the credit of being the first of us to find this out , and , as you say , it bears every mark of having been written by the other participant in last night 's mystery .
i have not had time to examine this room yet , but with your permission i shall do so now . "
as he spoke , he whipped a tape measure and a large round magnifying glass from his pocket .
with these two implements he trotted noiselessly about the room , sometimes stopping , occasionally kneeling , and once lying flat upon his face .
so engrossed was he with his occupation that he appeared to have forgotten our presence , for he chattered away to himself under his breath the whole time , keeping up a running fire of exclamations , groans , whistles , and little cries suggestive of encouragement and of hope .
as i watched him i was irresistibly reminded of a pure-blooded well-trained foxhound as it dashes backwards and forwards through the covert , whining in its eagerness , until it comes across the lost scent .
for twenty minutes or more he continued his researches , measuring with the most exact care the distance between marks which were entirely invisible to me , and occasionally applying his tape to the walls in an equally incomprehensible manner .
in one place he gathered up very carefully a little pile of grey dust from the floor , and packed it away in an envelope .
finally , he examined with his glass the word upon the wall , going over every letter of it with the most minute exactness .
this done , he appeared to be satisfied , for he replaced his tape and his glass in his pocket .
" they say that genius is an infinite capacity for taking pains , " he remarked with a smile .
" it 's a very bad definition , but it does apply to detective work . "
gregson and lestrade had watched the manoeuvres of their amateur companion with considerable curiosity and some contempt .
they evidently failed to appreciate the fact , which i had begun to realize , that sherlock holmes ' smallest actions were all directed towards some definite and practical end .
" what do you think of it , sir ? " they both asked .
" it would be robbing you of the credit of the case if i was to presume to help you , " remarked my friend .
" you are doing so well now that it would be a pity for anyone to interfere . "
there was a world of sarcasm in his voice as he spoke .
" if you will let me know how your investigations go , " he continued , " i shall be happy to give you any help i can .
in the meantime i should like to speak to the constable who found the body .
can you give me his name and address ? "
lestrade glanced at his note-book .
" john rance , " he said .
" he is off duty now .
you will find him at 46 , audley court , kennington park gate . "
holmes took a note of the address .
" come along , doctor , " he said ; " we shall go and look him up .
i 'll tell you one thing which may help you in the case , " he continued , turning to the two detectives .
" there has been murder done , and the murderer was a man .
he was more than six feet high , was in the prime of life , had small feet for his height , wore coarse , square-toed boots and smoked a trichinopoly cigar .
he came here with his victim in a four-wheeled cab , which was drawn by a horse with three old shoes and one new one on his off fore leg .
in all probability the murderer had a florid face , and the finger-nails of his right hand were remarkably long .
these are only a few indications , but they may assist you . "
lestrade and gregson glanced at each other with an incredulous smile .
" if this man was murdered , how was it done ? " asked the former .
" poison , " said sherlock holmes curtly , and strode off .
" one other thing , lestrade , " he added , turning round at the door : " ' rache , ' is the german for ' revenge ; ' so don 't lose your time looking for miss rachel . "
with which parthian shot he walked away , leaving the two rivals open-mouthed behind him .
chapter iv . what john rance had to tell .
it was one o 'clock when we left no. 3 , lauriston gardens .
sherlock holmes led me to the nearest telegraph office , whence he dispatched a long telegram . he then hailed a cab , and ordered the driver to take us to the address given us by lestrade .
" there is nothing like first hand evidence , " he remarked ; " as a matter of fact , my mind is entirely made up upon the case , but still we may as well learn all that is to be learned . "
" you amaze me , holmes , " said i. " surely you are not as sure as you pretend to be of all those particulars which you gave . "
" there 's no room for a mistake , " he answered .
" the very first thing which i observed on arriving there was that a cab had made two ruts with its wheels close to the curb . now , up to last night , we have had no rain for a week , so that those wheels which left such a deep impression must have been there during the night .
there were the marks of the horse 's hoofs , too , the outline of one of which was far more clearly cut than that of the other three , showing that that was a new shoe .
since the cab was there after the rain began , and was not there at any time during the morning - i have gregson 's word for that - it follows that it must have been there during the night , and , therefore , that it brought those two individuals to the house . "
" that seems simple enough , " said i ; " but how about the other man 's height ? "
" why , the height of a man , in nine cases out of ten , can be told from the length of his stride .
it is a simple calculation enough , though there is no use my boring you with figures .
i had this fellow 's stride both on the clay outside and on the dust within .
then i had a way of checking my calculation .
when a man writes on a wall , his instinct leads him to write about the level of his own eyes .
now that writing was just over six feet from the ground .
it was child 's play . "
" and his age ? " i asked .
" well , if a man can stride four and a-half feet without the smallest effort , he can 't be quite in the sere and yellow . that was the breadth of a puddle on the garden walk which he had evidently walked across .
patent-leather boots had gone round , and square-toes had hopped over .
there is no mystery about it at all .
i am simply applying to ordinary life a few of those precepts of observation and deduction which i advocated in that article .
is there anything else that puzzles you ? "
" the finger nails and the trichinopoly , " i suggested .
" the writing on the wall was done with a man 's forefinger dipped in blood .
my glass allowed me to observe that the plaster was slightly scratched in doing it , which would not have been the case if the man 's nail had been trimmed .
i gathered up some scattered ash from the floor .
it was dark in colour and flakey - such an ash as is only made by a trichinopoly .
i have made a special study of cigar ashes - in fact , i have written a monograph upon the subject .
i flatter myself that i can distinguish at a glance the ash of any known brand , either of cigar or of tobacco .
it is just in such details that the skilled detective differs from the gregson and lestrade type . "
" and the florid face ? " i asked .
" ah , that was a more daring shot , though i have no doubt that i was right .
you must not ask me that at the present state of the affair . "
i passed my hand over my brow .
" my head is in a whirl , " i remarked ; " the more one thinks of it the more mysterious it grows .
how came these two men - if there were two men - into an empty house ?
what has become of the cabman who drove them ?
how could one man compel another to take poison ?
where did the blood come from ?
what was the object of the murderer , since robbery had no part in it ?
how came the woman 's ring there ?
above all , why should the second man write up the german word rache before decamping ?
i confess that i cannot see any possible way of reconciling all these facts . "
my companion smiled approvingly .
" you sum up the difficulties of the situation succinctly and well , " he said . " there is much that is still obscure , though i have quite made up my mind on the main facts .
as to poor lestrade 's discovery it was simply a blind intended to put the police upon a wrong track , by suggesting socialism and secret societies .
it was not done by a german .
the a , if you noticed , was printed somewhat after the german fashion . now , a real german invariably prints in the latin character , so that we may safely say that this was not written by one , but by a clumsy imitator who overdid his part .
it was simply a ruse to divert inquiry into a wrong channel .
i 'm not going to tell you much more of the case , doctor . you know a conjuror gets no credit when once he has explained his trick , and if i show you too much of my method of working , you will come to the conclusion that i am a very ordinary individual after all . "
" i shall never do that , " i answered ; " you have brought detection as near an exact science as it ever will be brought in this world . "
my companion flushed up with pleasure at my words , and the earnest way in which i uttered them .
i had already observed that he was as sensitive to flattery on the score of his art as any girl could be of her beauty .
" i 'll tell you one other thing , " he said .
" patent leathers and square-toes came in the same cab , and they walked down the pathway together as friendly as possible - arm-in-arm , in all probability .
when they got inside they walked up and down the room - or rather , patent-leathers stood still while square-toes walked up and down .
i could read all that in the dust ; and i could read that as he walked he grew more and more excited .
that is shown by the increased length of his strides .
he was talking all the while , and working himself up , no doubt , into a fury .
then the tragedy occurred .
i 've told you all i know myself now , for the rest is mere surmise and conjecture .
we have a good working basis , however , on which to start . we must hurry up , for i want to go to halle 's concert to hear norman neruda this afternoon . "
this conversation had occurred while our cab had been threading its way through a long succession of dingy streets and dreary by-ways .
in the dingiest and dreariest of them our driver suddenly came to a stand .
" that 's audley court in there , " he said , pointing to a narrow slit in the line of dead-coloured brick .
" you 'll find me here when you come back . "
audley court was not an attractive locality .
the narrow passage led us into a quadrangle paved with flags and lined by sordid dwellings .
we picked our way among groups of dirty children , and through lines of discoloured linen , until we came to number 46 , the door of which was decorated with a small slip of brass on which the name rance was engraved .
on enquiry we found that the constable was in bed , and we were shown into a little front parlour to await his coming .
he appeared presently , looking a little irritable at being disturbed in his slumbers .
" i made my report at the office , " he said .
holmes took a half-sovereign from his pocket and played with it pensively .
" we thought that we should like to hear it all from your own lips , " he said .
" i shall be most happy to tell you anything i can , " the constable answered with his eyes upon the little golden disk .
" just let us hear it all in your own way as it occurred . "
rance sat down on the horsehair sofa , and knitted his brows as though determined not to omit anything in his narrative .
" i 'll tell it ye from the beginning , " he said . " my time is from ten at night to six in the morning .
at eleven there was a fight at the ' white hart ' ; but bar that all was quiet enough on the beat .
at one o 'clock it began to rain , and i met harry murcher - him who has the holland grove beat - and we stood together at the corner of henrietta street a-talkin ' .
presently - maybe about two or a little after - i thought i would take a look round and see that all was right down the brixton road .
it was precious dirty and lonely . not a soul did i meet all the way down , though a cab or two went past me .
i was a strollin ' down , thinkin ' between ourselves how uncommon handy a four of gin hot would be , when suddenly the glint of a light caught my eye in the window of that same house .
now , i knew that them two houses in lauriston gardens was empty on account of him that owns them who won 't have the drains seen to , though the very last tenant what lived in one of them died o ' typhoid fever .
i was knocked all in a heap therefore at seeing a light in the window , and i suspected as something was wrong .
when i got to the door - - "
" you stopped , and then walked back to the garden gate , " my companion interrupted . " what did you do that for ? "
rance gave a violent jump , and stared at sherlock holmes with the utmost amazement upon his features .
" why , that 's true , sir , " he said ; " though how you come to know it , heaven only knows .
ye see , when i got up to the door it was so still and so lonesome , that i thought i 'd be none the worse for some one with me .
i ain 't afeared of anything on this side o ' the grave ; but i thought that maybe it was him that died o ' the typhoid inspecting the drains what killed him .
the thought gave me a kind o ' turn , and i walked back to the gate to see if i could see murcher 's lantern , but there wasn 't no sign of him nor of anyone else . "
" there was no one in the street ? "
" not a livin ' soul , sir , nor as much as a dog .
then i pulled myself together and went back and pushed the door open .
all was quiet inside , so i went into the room where the light was a-burnin ' . there was a candle flickerin ' on the mantelpiece - a red wax one - and by its light i saw - - "
" yes , i know all that you saw .
you walked round the room several times , and you knelt down by the body , and then you walked through and tried the kitchen door , and then - - "
john rance sprang to his feet with a frightened face and suspicion in his eyes . " where was you hid to see all that ? " he cried .
" it seems to me that you knows a deal more than you should . "
holmes laughed and threw his card across the table to the constable .
" don 't get arresting me for the murder , " he said . " i am one of the hounds and not the wolf ; mr .
gregson or mr. lestrade will answer for that .
go on , though . what did you do next ? "
rance resumed his seat , without however losing his mystified expression .
" i went back to the gate and sounded my whistle . that brought murcher and two more to the spot . "
" was the street empty then ? "
" well , it was , as far as anybody that could be of any good goes . "
" what do you mean ? "
the constable 's features broadened into a grin .
" i 've seen many a drunk chap in my time , " he said , " but never anyone so cryin ' drunk as that cove .
he was at the gate when i came out , a-leanin ' up agin the railings , and a-singin ' at the pitch o ' his lungs about columbine 's new-fangled banner , or some such stuff . he couldn 't stand , far less help . "
" what sort of a man was he ? " asked sherlock holmes .
john rance appeared to be somewhat irritated at this digression .
" he was an uncommon drunk sort o ' man , " he said .
" he 'd ha ' found hisself in the station if we hadn 't been so took up . "
" his face - his dress - didn 't you notice them ? " holmes broke in impatiently .
" i should think i did notice them , seeing that i had to prop him up - me and murcher between us .
he was a long chap , with a red face , the lower part muffled round - - "
" that will do , " cried holmes . " what became of him ? "
" we 'd enough to do without lookin ' after him , " the policeman said , in an aggrieved voice . " i 'll wager he found his way home all right . "
" how was he dressed ? "
" a brown overcoat . "
" had he a whip in his hand ? "
" a whip - no . "
" he must have left it behind , " muttered my companion .
" you didn 't happen to see or hear a cab after that ? "
" no . "
" there 's a half-sovereign for you , " my companion said , standing up and taking his hat .
" i am afraid , rance , that you will never rise in the force . that head of yours should be for use as well as ornament .
you might have gained your sergeant 's stripes last night .
the man whom you held in your hands is the man who holds the clue of this mystery , and whom we are seeking .
there is no use of arguing about it now ; i tell you that it is so .
come along , doctor . "
we started off for the cab together , leaving our informant incredulous , but obviously uncomfortable .
" the blundering fool , " holmes said , bitterly , as we drove back to our lodgings .
" just to think of his having such an incomparable bit of good luck , and not taking advantage of it . "
" i am rather in the dark still .
it is true that the description of this man tallies with your idea of the second party in this mystery . but why should he come back to the house after leaving it ?
that is not the way of criminals . "
" the ring , man , the ring : that was what he came back for .
if we have no other way of catching him , we can always bait our line with the ring .
i shall have him , doctor - i 'll lay you two to one that i have him .
i must thank you for it all . i might not have gone but for you , and so have missed the finest study i ever came across : a study in scarlet , eh ?
why shouldn 't we use a little art jargon . there 's the scarlet thread of murder running through the colourless skein of life , and our duty is to unravel it , and isolate it , and expose every inch of it .
and now for lunch , and then for norman neruda . her attack and her bowing are splendid .
what 's that little thing of chopin 's she plays so magnificently : tra-la-la-lira-lira-lay . "
leaning back in the cab , this amateur bloodhound carolled away like a lark while i meditated upon the many-sidedness of the human mind .
chapter v. our advertisement brings a visitor .
our morning 's exertions had been too much for my weak health , and i was tired out in the afternoon .
after holmes ' departure for the concert , i lay down upon the sofa and endeavoured to get a couple of hours ' sleep .
it was a useless attempt .
my mind had been too much excited by all that had occurred , and the strangest fancies and surmises crowded into it .
every time that i closed my eyes i saw before me the distorted baboon-like countenance of the murdered man .
so sinister was the impression which that face had produced upon me that i found it difficult to feel anything but gratitude for him who had removed its owner from the world . if ever human features bespoke vice of the most malignant type , they were certainly those of enoch j. drebber , of cleveland .
still i recognized that justice must be done , and that the depravity of the victim was no condonment in the eyes of the law .
the more i thought of it the more extraordinary did my companion 's hypothesis , that the man had been poisoned , appear . i remembered how he had sniffed his lips , and had no doubt that he had detected something which had given rise to the idea .
then , again , if not poison , what had caused the man 's death , since there was neither wound nor marks of strangulation ?
but , on the other hand , whose blood was that which lay so thickly upon the floor ?
there were no signs of a struggle , nor had the victim any weapon with which he might have wounded an antagonist .
as long as all these questions were unsolved , i felt that sleep would be no easy matter , either for holmes or myself .
his quiet self-confident manner convinced me that he had already formed a theory which explained all the facts , though what it was i could not for an instant conjecture .
he was very late in returning - so late , that i knew that the concert could not have detained him all the time .
dinner was on the table before he appeared .
" it was magnificent , " he said , as he took his seat .
" do you remember what darwin says about music ?
he claims that the power of producing and appreciating it existed among the human race long before the power of speech was arrived at .
perhaps that is why we are so subtly influenced by it .
there are vague memories in our souls of those misty centuries when the world was in its childhood . "
" that 's rather a broad idea , " i remarked .
" one 's ideas must be as broad as nature if they are to interpret nature , " he answered . " what 's the matter ?
you 're not looking quite yourself . this brixton road affair has upset you . "
" to tell the truth , it has , " i said . " i ought to be more case-hardened after my afghan experiences .
i saw my own comrades hacked to pieces at maiwand without losing my nerve . "
" i can understand .
there is a mystery about this which stimulates the imagination ; where there is no imagination there is no horror .
have you seen the evening paper ? "
" no . "
" it gives a fairly good account of the affair . it does not mention the fact that when the man was raised up , a woman 's wedding ring fell upon the floor .
it is just as well it does not . "
" why ? "
" look at this advertisement , " he answered .
" i had one sent to every paper this morning immediately after the affair . "
he threw the paper across to me and i glanced at the place indicated .
it was the first announcement in the " found " column . " in brixton road , this morning , " it ran , " a plain gold wedding ring , found in the roadway between the ' white hart ' tavern and holland grove .
" excuse my using your name , " he said .
" if i used my own some of these dunderheads would recognize it , and want to meddle in the affair . "
" that is all right , " i answered . " but supposing anyone applies , i have no ring . "
" oh yes , you have , " said he , handing me one .
" this will do very well . it is almost a facsimile . "
" and who do you expect will answer this advertisement . "
" why , the man in the brown coat - our florid friend with the square toes .
if he does not come himself he will send an accomplice . "
" would he not consider it as too dangerous ? "
" not at all . if my view of the case is correct , and i have every reason to believe that it is , this man would rather risk anything than lose the ring .
according to my notion he dropped it while stooping over drebber 's body , and did not miss it at the time .
after leaving the house he discovered his loss and hurried back , but found the police already in possession , owing to his own folly in leaving the candle burning .
he had to pretend to be drunk in order to allay the suspicions which might have been aroused by his appearance at the gate .
now put yourself in that man 's place . on thinking the matter over , it must have occurred to him that it was possible that he had lost the ring in the road after leaving the house .
what would he do , then ?
he would eagerly look out for the evening papers in the hope of seeing it among the articles found .
his eye , of course , would light upon this . he would be overjoyed .
why should he fear a trap ?
there would be no reason in his eyes why the finding of the ring should be connected with the murder .
he would come . he will come .
you shall see him within an hour . "
" and then ? " i asked .
" oh , you can leave me to deal with him then .
have you any arms ? "
" i have my old service revolver and a few cartridges . "
" you had better clean it and load it . he will be a desperate man , and though i shall take him unawares , it is as well to be ready for anything . "
i went to my bedroom and followed his advice .
when i returned with the pistol the table had been cleared , and holmes was engaged in his favourite occupation of scraping upon his violin .
" the plot thickens , " he said , as i entered ; " i have just had an answer to my american telegram .
my view of the case is the correct one . "
" and that is ? " i asked eagerly .
" my fiddle would be the better for new strings , " he remarked .
" put your pistol in your pocket .
when the fellow comes speak to him in an ordinary way . leave the rest to me .
don 't frighten him by looking at him too hard . "
" it is eight o 'clock now , " i said , glancing at my watch .
" yes . he will probably be here in a few minutes .
open the door slightly .
that will do .
now put the key on the inside .
thank you !
this is a queer old book i picked up at a stall yesterday - ' de jure inter gentes ' - published in latin at liege in the lowlands , in 1642 .
charles ' head was still firm on his shoulders when this little brown-backed volume was struck off . "
" who is the printer ? "
" philippe de croy , whoever he may have been .
on the fly-leaf , in very faded ink , is written ' ex libris guliolmi whyte . ' i wonder who william whyte was .
some pragmatical seventeenth century lawyer , i suppose . his writing has a legal twist about it .
here comes our man , i think . "
as he spoke there was a sharp ring at the bell . sherlock holmes rose softly and moved his chair in the direction of the door .
we heard the servant pass along the hall , and the sharp click of the latch as she opened it .
" does dr. watson live here ? " asked a clear but rather harsh voice .
we could not hear the servant 's reply , but the door closed , and some one began to ascend the stairs .
the footfall was an uncertain and shuffling one .
a look of surprise passed over the face of my companion as he listened to it .
it came slowly along the passage , and there was a feeble tap at the door .
" come in , " i cried .
at my summons , instead of the man of violence whom we expected , a very old and wrinkled woman hobbled into the apartment .
she appeared to be dazzled by the sudden blaze of light , and after dropping a curtsey , she stood blinking at us with her bleared eyes and fumbling in her pocket with nervous , shaky fingers .
i glanced at my companion , and his face had assumed such a disconsolate expression that it was all i could do to keep my countenance .
the old crone drew out an evening paper , and pointed at our advertisement .
" it 's this as has brought me , good gentlemen , " she said , dropping another curtsey ; " a gold wedding ring in the brixton road .
it belongs to my girl sally , as was married only this time twelvemonth , which her husband is steward aboard a union boat , and what he 'd say if he come ' ome and found her without her ring is more than i can think , he being short enough at the best o ' times , but more especially when he has the drink .
if it please you , she went to the circus last night along with - - "
" is that her ring ? " i asked .
" the lord be thanked ! " cried the old woman ; " sally will be a glad woman this night .
that 's the ring . "
" and what may your address be ? " i inquired , taking up a pencil .
" 13 , duncan street , houndsditch . a weary way from here . "
" the brixton road does not lie between any circus and houndsditch , " said sherlock holmes sharply .
the old woman faced round and looked keenly at him from her little red-rimmed eyes .
" the gentleman asked me for my address , " she said .
" sally lives in lodgings at 3 , mayfield place , peckham . "
" and your name is - - ? "
" my name is sawyer - her 's is dennis , which tom dennis married her - and a smart , clean lad , too , as long as he 's at sea , and no steward in the company more thought of ; but when on shore , what with the women and what with liquor shops - - "
" here is your ring , mrs. sawyer , " i interrupted , in obedience to a sign from my companion ; " it clearly belongs to your daughter , and i am glad to be able to restore it to the rightful owner . "
with many mumbled blessings and protestations of gratitude the old crone packed it away in her pocket , and shuffled off down the stairs .
sherlock holmes sprang to his feet the moment that she was gone and rushed into his room .
he returned in a few seconds enveloped in an ulster and a cravat .
" i 'll follow her , " he said , hurriedly ; " she must be an accomplice , and will lead me to him .
wait up for me . "
the hall door had hardly slammed behind our visitor before holmes had descended the stair .
looking through the window i could see her walking feebly along the other side , while her pursuer dogged her some little distance behind .
" either his whole theory is incorrect , " i thought to myself , " or else he will be led now to the heart of the mystery . "
there was no need for him to ask me to wait up for him , for i felt that sleep was impossible until i heard the result of his adventure .
it was close upon nine when he set out .
i had no idea how long he might be , but i sat stolidly puffing at my pipe and skipping over the pages of henri murger 's " vie de boheme . "
ten o 'clock passed , and i heard the footsteps of the maid as they pattered off to bed . eleven , and the more stately tread of the landlady passed my door , bound for the same destination .
it was close upon twelve before i heard the sharp sound of his latch-key .
the instant he entered i saw by his face that he had not been successful . amusement and chagrin seemed to be struggling for the mastery , until the former suddenly carried the day , and he burst into a hearty laugh .
" i wouldn 't have the scotland yarders know it for the world , " he cried , dropping into his chair ; " i have chaffed them so much that they would never have let me hear the end of it .
i can afford to laugh , because i know that i will be even with them in the long run . "
" what is it then ? " i asked .
" oh , i don 't mind telling a story against myself .
that creature had gone a little way when she began to limp and show every sign of being foot-sore .
presently she came to a halt , and hailed a four-wheeler which was passing .
i managed to be close to her so as to hear the address , but i need not have been so anxious , for she sang it out loud enough to be heard at the other side of the street , ' drive to 13 , duncan street , houndsditch , ' she cried .
this begins to look genuine , i thought , and having seen her safely inside , i perched myself behind .
that 's an art which every detective should be an expert at .
well , away we rattled , and never drew rein until we reached the street in question .
i hopped off before we came to the door , and strolled down the street in an easy , lounging way .
i saw the cab pull up . the driver jumped down , and i saw him open the door and stand expectantly .
nothing came out though .
when i reached him he was groping about frantically in the empty cab , and giving vent to the finest assorted collection of oaths that ever i listened to .
there was no sign or trace of his passenger , and i fear it will be some time before he gets his fare .
on inquiring at number 13 we found that the house belonged to a respectable paperhanger , named keswick , and that no one of the name either of sawyer or dennis had ever been heard of there . "
" you don 't mean to say , " i cried , in amazement , " that that tottering , feeble old woman was able to get out of the cab while it was in motion , without either you or the driver seeing her ? "
" old woman be damned ! " said sherlock holmes , sharply .
" we were the old women to be so taken in .
it must have been a young man , and an active one , too , besides being an incomparable actor .
the get-up was inimitable .
he saw that he was followed , no doubt , and used this means of giving me the slip .
it shows that the man we are after is not as lonely as i imagined he was , but has friends who are ready to risk something for him .
now , doctor , you are looking done-up . take my advice and turn in . "
i was certainly feeling very weary , so i obeyed his injunction .
i left holmes seated in front of the smouldering fire , and long into the watches of the night i heard the low , melancholy wailings of his violin , and knew that he was still pondering over the strange problem which he had set himself to unravel .
chapter vi . tobias gregson shows what he can do .
the papers next day were full of the " brixton mystery , " as they termed it .
each had a long account of the affair , and some had leaders upon it in addition .
there was some information in them which was new to me .
i still retain in my scrap-book numerous clippings and extracts bearing upon the case . here is a condensation of a few of them : -
the daily telegraph remarked that in the history of crime there had seldom been a tragedy which presented stranger features .
the german name of the victim , the absence of all other motive , and the sinister inscription on the wall , all pointed to its perpetration by political refugees and revolutionists .
the socialists had many branches in america , and the deceased had , no doubt , infringed their unwritten laws , and been tracked down by them .
after alluding airily to the vehmgericht , aqua tofana , carbonari , the marchioness de brinvilliers , the darwinian theory , the principles of malthus , and the ratcliff highway murders , the article concluded by admonishing the government and advocating a closer watch over foreigners in england .
the standard commented upon the fact that lawless outrages of the sort usually occurred under a liberal administration . they arose from the unsettling of the minds of the masses , and the consequent weakening of all authority .
the deceased was an american gentleman who had been residing for some weeks in the metropolis . he had stayed at the boarding-house of madame charpentier , in torquay terrace , camberwell .
he was accompanied in his travels by his private secretary , mr. joseph stangerson .
the two bade adieu to their landlady upon tuesday , the 4th inst . , and departed to euston station with the avowed intention of catching the liverpool express .
they were afterwards seen together upon the platform . nothing more is known of them until mr .
drebber 's body was , as recorded , discovered in an empty house in the brixton road , many miles from euston . how he came there , or how he met his fate , are questions which are still involved in mystery .
nothing is known of the whereabouts of stangerson .
we are glad to learn that mr .
lestrade and mr .
gregson , of scotland yard , are both engaged upon the case , and it is confidently anticipated that these well-known officers will speedily throw light upon the matter .
the daily news observed that there was no doubt as to the crime being a political one .
the despotism and hatred of liberalism which animated the continental governments had had the effect of driving to our shores a number of men who might have made excellent citizens were they not soured by the recollection of all that they had undergone .
among these men there was a stringent code of honour , any infringement of which was punished by death .
every effort should be made to find the secretary , stangerson , and to ascertain some particulars of the habits of the deceased .
a great step had been gained by the discovery of the address of the house at which he had boarded - a result which was entirely due to the acuteness and energy of mr. gregson of scotland yard .
sherlock holmes and i read these notices over together at breakfast , and they appeared to afford him considerable amusement .
" i told you that , whatever happened , lestrade and gregson would be sure to score . "
" that depends on how it turns out . "
" oh , bless you , it doesn 't matter in the least .
if the man is caught , it will be on account of their exertions ; if he escapes , it will be in spite of their exertions .
it 's heads i win and tails you lose . whatever they do , they will have followers .
'un sot trouve toujours un plus sot qui l 'admire . ' "
" what on earth is this ? "
i cried , for at this moment there came the pattering of many steps in the hall and on the stairs , accompanied by audible expressions of disgust upon the part of our landlady .
" it 's the baker street division of the detective police force , " said my companion , gravely ; and as he spoke there rushed into the room half a dozen of the dirtiest and most ragged street arabs that ever i clapped eyes on .
" ' tention ! " cried holmes , in a sharp tone , and the six dirty little scoundrels stood in a line like so many disreputable statuettes . " in future you shall send up wiggins alone to report , and the rest of you must wait in the street .
have you found it , wiggins ? "
" no , sir , we hain 't , " said one of the youths .
" i hardly expected you would .
you must keep on until you do .
here are your wages . "
he handed each of them a shilling .
" now , off you go , and come back with a better report next time . "
he waved his hand , and they scampered away downstairs like so many rats , and we heard their shrill voices next moment in the street .
" there 's more work to be got out of one of those little beggars than out of a dozen of the force , " holmes remarked .
" the mere sight of an official-looking person seals men 's lips . these youngsters , however , go everywhere and hear everything .
they are as sharp as needles , too ; all they want is organisation . "
" is it on this brixton case that you are employing them ? " i asked .
" yes ; there is a point which i wish to ascertain . it is merely a matter of time .
hullo ! we are going to hear some news now with a vengeance !
here is gregson coming down the road with beatitude written upon every feature of his face . bound for us , i know .
there was a violent peal at the bell , and in a few seconds the fair-haired detective came up the stairs , three steps at a time , and burst into our sitting-room .
" my dear fellow , " he cried , wringing holmes ' unresponsive hand , " congratulate me !
i have made the whole thing as clear as day . "
a shade of anxiety seemed to me to cross my companion 's expressive face .
" do you mean that you are on the right track ? " he asked .
" the right track !
why , sir , we have the man under lock and key . "
" and his name is ? "
" arthur charpentier , sub-lieutenant in her majesty 's navy , " cried gregson , pompously , rubbing his fat hands and inflating his chest .
sherlock holmes gave a sigh of relief , and relaxed into a smile .
" take a seat , and try one of these cigars , " he said . " we are anxious to know how you managed it .
will you have some whiskey and water ? "
" i don 't mind if i do , " the detective answered .
" the tremendous exertions which i have gone through during the last day or two have worn me out .
not so much bodily exertion , you understand , as the strain upon the mind .
you will appreciate that , mr. sherlock holmes , for we are both brain-workers . "
" you do me too much honour , " said holmes , gravely .
" let us hear how you arrived at this most gratifying result . "
the detective seated himself in the arm-chair , and puffed complacently at his cigar .
then suddenly he slapped his thigh in a paroxysm of amusement .
" the fun of it is , " he cried , " that that fool lestrade , who thinks himself so smart , has gone off upon the wrong track altogether .
he is after the secretary stangerson , who had no more to do with the crime than the babe unborn .
i have no doubt that he has caught him by this time . "
the idea tickled gregson so much that he laughed until he choked .
" and how did you get your clue ? "
" ah , i 'll tell you all about it . of course , doctor watson , this is strictly between ourselves .
the first difficulty which we had to contend with was the finding of this american 's antecedents .
some people would have waited until their advertisements were answered , or until parties came forward and volunteered information .
that is not tobias gregson 's way of going to work .
you remember the hat beside the dead man ? "
" yes , " said holmes ; " by john underwood and sons , 129 , camberwell road . "
gregson looked quite crest-fallen .
" i had no idea that you noticed that , " he said .
" have you been there ? "
" no . "
" ha ! " cried gregson , in a relieved voice ; " you should never neglect a chance , however small it may seem . "
" to a great mind , nothing is little , " remarked holmes , sententiously .
" well , i went to underwood , and asked him if he had sold a hat of that size and description .
he looked over his books , and came on it at once .
he had sent the hat to a mr. drebber , residing at charpentier 's boarding establishment , torquay terrace .
thus i got at his address . "
" smart - very smart ! " murmured sherlock holmes .
" i next called upon madame charpentier , " continued the detective .
" i found her very pale and distressed .
her daughter was in the room , too - an uncommonly fine girl she is , too ; she was looking red about the eyes and her lips trembled as i spoke to her .
that didn 't escape my notice . i began to smell a rat .
you know the feeling , mr. sherlock holmes , when you come upon the right scent - a kind of thrill in your nerves .
'have you heard of the mysterious death of your late boarder mr. enoch j. drebber , of cleveland ? '
" the mother nodded . she didn 't seem able to get out a word .
the daughter burst into tears .
i felt more than ever that these people knew something of the matter .
" ' at what o 'clock did mr .
drebber leave your house for the train ? ' i asked .
" ' at eight o 'clock , ' she said , gulping in her throat to keep down her agitation .
'his secretary , mr. stangerson , said that there were two trains - one at 9.15 and one at 11 .
he was to catch the first .
" ' and was that the last which you saw of him ? '
" a terrible change came over the woman 's face as i asked the question .
her features turned perfectly livid . it was some seconds before she could get out the single word ' yes ' - and when it did come it was in a husky unnatural tone .
" there was silence for a moment , and then the daughter spoke in a calm clear voice .
" ' no good can ever come of falsehood , mother , ' she said . ' let us be frank with this gentleman .
we did see mr. drebber again . '
" ' god forgive you ! ' cried madame charpentier , throwing up her hands and sinking back in her chair .
'you have murdered your brother . '
" ' arthur would rather that we spoke the truth , ' the girl answered firmly .
" ' you had best tell me all about it now , ' i said . ' half-confidences are worse than none .
besides , you do not know how much we know of it . '
" ' on your head be it , alice ! ' cried her mother ; and then , turning to me , ' i will tell you all , sir .
do not imagine that my agitation on behalf of my son arises from any fear lest he should have had a hand in this terrible affair . he is utterly innocent of it .
my dread is , however , that in your eyes and in the eyes of others he may appear to be compromised .
that however is surely impossible . his high character , his profession , his antecedents would all forbid it . '
" ' your best way is to make a clean breast of the facts , ' i answered . ' depend upon it , if your son is innocent he will be none the worse . '
" ' perhaps , alice , you had better leave us together , ' she said , and her daughter withdrew .
'now , sir , ' she continued , ' i had no intention of telling you all this , but since my poor daughter has disclosed it i have no alternative .
having once decided to speak , i will tell you all without omitting any particular . '
" ' it is your wisest course , ' said i .
" ' mr. drebber has been with us nearly three weeks .
he and his secretary , mr. stangerson , had been travelling on the continent .
i noticed a " copenhagen " label upon each of their trunks , showing that that had been their last stopping place .
stangerson was a quiet reserved man , but his employer , i am sorry to say , was far otherwise .
he was coarse in his habits and brutish in his ways .
the very night of his arrival he became very much the worse for drink , and , indeed , after twelve o 'clock in the day he could hardly ever be said to be sober . his manners towards the maid-servants were disgustingly free and familiar .
worst of all , he speedily assumed the same attitude towards my daughter , alice , and spoke to her more than once in a way which , fortunately , she is too innocent to understand .
on one occasion he actually seized her in his arms and embraced her - an outrage which caused his own secretary to reproach him for his unmanly conduct . '
" ' but why did you stand all this , ' i asked .
'i suppose that you can get rid of your boarders when you wish . '
charpentier blushed at my pertinent question . ' would to god that i had given him notice on the very day that he came , ' she said .
'but it was a sore temptation .
they were paying a pound a day each - fourteen pounds a week , and this is the slack season .
i am a widow , and my boy in the navy has cost me much .
i grudged to lose the money . i acted for the best .
this last was too much , however , and i gave him notice to leave on account of it .
that was the reason of his going . '
" ' well ? '
" ' my heart grew light when i saw him drive away .
my son is on leave just now , but i did not tell him anything of all this , for his temper is violent , and he is passionately fond of his sister . when i closed the door behind them a load seemed to be lifted from my mind .
alas , in less than an hour there was a ring at the bell , and i learned that mr .
drebber had returned . he was much excited , and evidently the worse for drink .
he forced his way into the room , where i was sitting with my daughter , and made some incoherent remark about having missed his train .
he then turned to alice , and before my very face , proposed to her that she should fly with him . " you are of age , " he said , " and there is no law to stop you .
i have money enough and to spare .
never mind the old girl here , but come along with me now straight away .
you shall live like a princess . "
poor alice was so frightened that she shrunk away from him , but he caught her by the wrist and endeavoured to draw her towards the door . i screamed , and at that moment my son arthur came into the room .
what happened then i do not know . i heard oaths and the confused sounds of a scuffle .
i was too terrified to raise my head .
when i did look up i saw arthur standing in the doorway laughing , with a stick in his hand .
" i don 't think that fine fellow will trouble us again , " he said . " i will just go after him and see what he does with himself . "
with those words he took his hat and started off down the street .
the next morning we heard of mr. drebber 's mysterious death . '
" this statement came from mrs. charpentier 's lips with many gasps and pauses .
at times she spoke so low that i could hardly catch the words .
i made shorthand notes of all that she said , however , so that there should be no possibility of a mistake . "
" it 's quite exciting , " said sherlock holmes , with a yawn .
" what happened next ? "
" when mrs. charpentier paused , " the detective continued , " i saw that the whole case hung upon one point .
fixing her with my eye in a way which i always found effective with women , i asked her at what hour her son returned .
" ' i do not know , ' she answered .
" ' not know ? '
" ' no ; he has a latch-key , and he let himself in . '
" ' after you went to bed ? '
" ' yes . '
" ' when did you go to bed ? '
" ' about eleven . '
" ' so your son was gone at least two hours ? '
" ' yes . '
" ' possibly four or five ? '
" ' yes . '
" ' what was he doing during that time ? '
" ' i do not know , ' she answered , turning white to her very lips .
" of course after that there was nothing more to be done .
i found out where lieutenant charpentier was , took two officers with me , and arrested him .
when i touched him on the shoulder and warned him to come quietly with us , he answered us as bold as brass , ' i suppose you are arresting me for being concerned in the death of that scoundrel drebber , ' he said .
we had said nothing to him about it , so that his alluding to it had a most suspicious aspect . "
" very , " said holmes .
" he still carried the heavy stick which the mother described him as having with him when he followed drebber .
it was a stout oak cudgel . "
" what is your theory , then ? "
" well , my theory is that he followed drebber as far as the brixton road .
when there , a fresh altercation arose between them , in the course of which drebber received a blow from the stick , in the pit of the stomach , perhaps , which killed him without leaving any mark .
the night was so wet that no one was about , so charpentier dragged the body of his victim into the empty house .
as to the candle , and the blood , and the writing on the wall , and the ring , they may all be so many tricks to throw the police on to the wrong scent . "
" well done ! " said holmes in an encouraging voice .
" really , gregson , you are getting along .
we shall make something of you yet . "
" i flatter myself that i have managed it rather neatly , " the detective answered proudly .
" the young man volunteered a statement , in which he said that after following drebber some time , the latter perceived him , and took a cab in order to get away from him .
on his way home he met an old shipmate , and took a long walk with him .
on being asked where this old shipmate lived , he was unable to give any satisfactory reply .
i think the whole case fits together uncommonly well .
what amuses me is to think of lestrade , who had started off upon the wrong scent .
i am afraid he won 't make much of it .
why , by jove , here 's the very man himself ! "
it was indeed lestrade , who had ascended the stairs while we were talking , and who now entered the room .
the assurance and jauntiness which generally marked his demeanour and dress were , however , wanting .
his face was disturbed and troubled , while his clothes were disarranged and untidy .
he had evidently come with the intention of consulting with sherlock holmes , for on perceiving his colleague he appeared to be embarrassed and put out .
he stood in the centre of the room , fumbling nervously with his hat and uncertain what to do . " this is a most extraordinary case , " he said at last - " a most incomprehensible affair . "
" ah , you find it so , mr. lestrade ! " cried gregson , triumphantly .
" i thought you would come to that conclusion .
have you managed to find the secretary , mr. joseph stangerson ? "
" the secretary , mr. joseph stangerson , " said lestrade gravely , " was murdered at halliday 's private hotel about six o 'clock this morning . "
chapter vii . light in the darkness .
the intelligence with which lestrade greeted us was so momentous and so unexpected , that we were all three fairly dumfoundered .
gregson sprang out of his chair and upset the remainder of his whiskey and water .
i stared in silence at sherlock holmes , whose lips were compressed and his brows drawn down over his eyes .
" stangerson too ! " he muttered . " the plot thickens . "
" it was quite thick enough before , " grumbled lestrade , taking a chair .
" i seem to have dropped into a sort of council of war . "
" are you - are you sure of this piece of intelligence ? " stammered gregson .
" i have just come from his room , " said lestrade . " i was the first to discover what had occurred . "
" we have been hearing gregson 's view of the matter , " holmes observed .
" would you mind letting us know what you have seen and done ? "
" i have no objection , " lestrade answered , seating himself .
" i freely confess that i was of the opinion that stangerson was concerned in the death of drebber . this fresh development has shown me that i was completely mistaken .
full of the one idea , i set myself to find out what had become of the secretary .
they had been seen together at euston station about half-past eight on the evening of the third .
at two in the morning drebber had been found in the brixton road . the question which confronted me was to find out how stangerson had been employed between 8.30 and the time of the crime , and what had become of him afterwards .
i telegraphed to liverpool , giving a description of the man , and warning them to keep a watch upon the american boats .
i then set to work calling upon all the hotels and lodging-houses in the vicinity of euston .
you see , i argued that if drebber and his companion had become separated , the natural course for the latter would be to put up somewhere in the vicinity for the night , and then to hang about the station again next morning . "
" they would be likely to agree on some meeting-place beforehand , " remarked holmes .
" so it proved .
i spent the whole of yesterday evening in making enquiries entirely without avail .
this morning i began very early , and at eight o 'clock i reached halliday 's private hotel , in little george street . on my enquiry as to whether a mr .
stangerson was living there , they at once answered me in the affirmative .
" ' no doubt you are the gentleman whom he was expecting , ' they said .
'he has been waiting for a gentleman for two days . '
" ' where is he now ? ' i asked .
" ' he is upstairs in bed .
he wished to be called at nine . '
" ' i will go up and see him at once , ' i said .
" it seemed to me that my sudden appearance might shake his nerves and lead him to say something unguarded .
the boots volunteered to show me the room : it was on the second floor , and there was a small corridor leading up to it .
the boots pointed out the door to me , and was about to go downstairs again when i saw something that made me feel sickish , in spite of my twenty years ' experience .
from under the door there curled a little red ribbon of blood , which had meandered across the passage and formed a little pool along the skirting at the other side .
i gave a cry , which brought the boots back .
he nearly fainted when he saw it .
the door was locked on the inside , but we put our shoulders to it , and knocked it in .
the window of the room was open , and beside the window , all huddled up , lay the body of a man in his nightdress .
he was quite dead , and had been for some time , for his limbs were rigid and cold .
when we turned him over , the boots recognized him at once as being the same gentleman who had engaged the room under the name of joseph stangerson .
the cause of death was a deep stab in the left side , which must have penetrated the heart .
and now comes the strangest part of the affair .
what do you suppose was above the murdered man ? "
i felt a creeping of the flesh , and a presentiment of coming horror , even before sherlock holmes answered .
" the word rache , written in letters of blood , " he said .
" that was it , " said lestrade , in an awe-struck voice ; and we were all silent for a while .
there was something so methodical and so incomprehensible about the deeds of this unknown assassin , that it imparted a fresh ghastliness to his crimes .
my nerves , which were steady enough on the field of battle tingled as i thought of it .
" the man was seen , " continued lestrade .
" a milk boy , passing on his way to the dairy , happened to walk down the lane which leads from the mews at the back of the hotel .
he noticed that a ladder , which usually lay there , was raised against one of the windows of the second floor , which was wide open .
after passing , he looked back and saw a man descend the ladder .
he came down so quietly and openly that the boy imagined him to be some carpenter or joiner at work in the hotel .
he took no particular notice of him , beyond thinking in his own mind that it was early for him to be at work .
he has an impression that the man was tall , had a reddish face , and was dressed in a long , brownish coat .
he must have stayed in the room some little time after the murder , for we found blood-stained water in the basin , where he had washed his hands , and marks on the sheets where he had deliberately wiped his knife . "
i glanced at holmes on hearing the description of the murderer , which tallied so exactly with his own . there was , however , no trace of exultation or satisfaction upon his face .
" did you find nothing in the room which could furnish a clue to the murderer ? " he asked .
" nothing . stangerson had drebber 's purse in his pocket , but it seems that this was usual , as he did all the paying .
there was eighty odd pounds in it , but nothing had been taken .
whatever the motives of these extraordinary crimes , robbery is certainly not one of them .
there were no papers or memoranda in the murdered man 's pocket , except a single telegram , dated from cleveland about a month ago , and containing the words , ' j. h. is in europe . '
there was no name appended to this message . "
" and there was nothing else ? " holmes asked .
" nothing of any importance .
the man 's novel , with which he had read himself to sleep was lying upon the bed , and his pipe was on a chair beside him .
there was a glass of water on the table , and on the window-sill a small chip ointment box containing a couple of pills . "
sherlock holmes sprang from his chair with an exclamation of delight .
" the last link , " he cried , exultantly . " my case is complete . "
the two detectives stared at him in amazement .
" i have now in my hands , " my companion said , confidently , " all the threads which have formed such a tangle .
there are , of course , details to be filled in , but i am as certain of all the main facts , from the time that drebber parted from stangerson at the station , up to the discovery of the body of the latter , as if i had seen them with my own eyes . i will give you a proof of my knowledge .
could you lay your hand upon those pills ? "
" i have them , " said lestrade , producing a small white box ; " i took them and the purse and the telegram , intending to have them put in a place of safety at the police station .
it was the merest chance my taking these pills , for i am bound to say that i do not attach any importance to them . "
" give them here , " said holmes .
" now , doctor , " turning to me , " are those ordinary pills ? "
they certainly were not .
they were of a pearly grey colour , small , round , and almost transparent against the light .
" from their lightness and transparency , i should imagine that they are soluble in water , " i remarked .
" precisely so , " answered holmes .
" now would you mind going down and fetching that poor little devil of a terrier which has been bad so long , and which the landlady wanted you to put out of its pain yesterday . "
i went downstairs and carried the dog upstair in my arms .
it 's laboured breathing and glazing eye showed that it was not far from its end .
indeed , its snow-white muzzle proclaimed that it had already exceeded the usual term of canine existence .
i placed it upon a cushion on the rug .
" i will now cut one of these pills in two , " said holmes , and drawing his penknife he suited the action to the word . " one half we return into the box for future purposes .
the other half i will place in this wine glass , in which is a teaspoonful of water . you perceive that our friend , the doctor , is right , and that it readily dissolves . "
" this may be very interesting , " said lestrade , in the injured tone of one who suspects that he is being laughed at , " i cannot see , however , what it has to do with the death of mr. joseph stangerson . "
" patience , my friend , patience !
you will find in time that it has everything to do with it .
i shall now add a little milk to make the mixture palatable , and on presenting it to the dog we find that he laps it up readily enough . "
as he spoke he turned the contents of the wine glass into a saucer and placed it in front of the terrier , who speedily licked it dry .
sherlock holmes ' earnest demeanour had so far convinced us that we all sat in silence , watching the animal intently , and expecting some startling effect .
none such appeared , however .
the dog continued to lie stretched upon the cushion , breathing in a laboured way , but apparently neither the better nor the worse for its draught .
holmes had taken out his watch , and as minute followed minute without result , an expression of the utmost chagrin and disappointment appeared upon his features .
he gnawed his lip , drummed his fingers upon the table , and showed every other symptom of acute impatience .
so great was his emotion , that i felt sincerely sorry for him , while the two detectives smiled derisively , by no means displeased at this check which he had met .
" it can 't be a coincidence , " he cried , at last springing from his chair and pacing wildly up and down the room ; " it is impossible that it should be a mere coincidence .
the very pills which i suspected in the case of drebber are actually found after the death of stangerson .
and yet they are inert .
what can it mean ?
surely my whole chain of reasoning cannot have been false .
it is impossible !
and yet this wretched dog is none the worse .
ah , i have it ! i have it ! "
with a perfect shriek of delight he rushed to the box , cut the other pill in two , dissolved it , added milk , and presented it to the terrier .
the unfortunate creature 's tongue seemed hardly to have been moistened in it before it gave a convulsive shiver in every limb , and lay as rigid and lifeless as if it had been struck by lightning .
sherlock holmes drew a long breath , and wiped the perspiration from his forehead . " i should have more faith , " he said ; " i ought to know by this time that when a fact appears to be opposed to a long train of deductions , it invariably proves to be capable of bearing some other interpretation .
of the two pills in that box one was of the most deadly poison , and the other was entirely harmless .
i ought to have known that before ever i saw the box at all . "
this last statement appeared to me to be so startling , that i could hardly believe that he was in his sober senses .
there was the dead dog , however , to prove that his conjecture had been correct .
it seemed to me that the mists in my own mind were gradually clearing away , and i began to have a dim , vague perception of the truth .
" all this seems strange to you , " continued holmes , " because you failed at the beginning of the inquiry to grasp the importance of the single real clue which was presented to you .
i had the good fortune to seize upon that , and everything which has occurred since then has served to confirm my original supposition , and , indeed , was the logical sequence of it .
hence things which have perplexed you and made the case more obscure , have served to enlighten me and to strengthen my conclusions .
it is a mistake to confound strangeness with mystery .
the most commonplace crime is often the most mysterious because it presents no new or special features from which deductions may be drawn .
this murder would have been infinitely more difficult to unravel had the body of the victim been simply found lying in the roadway without any of those outre and sensational accompaniments which have rendered it remarkable .
these strange details , far from making the case more difficult , have really had the effect of making it less so . "
gregson , who had listened to this address with considerable impatience , could contain himself no longer . " look here , mr .
sherlock holmes , " he said , " we are all ready to acknowledge that you are a smart man , and that you have your own methods of working . we want something more than mere theory and preaching now , though .
it is a case of taking the man .
i have made my case out , and it seems i was wrong .
young charpentier could not have been engaged in this second affair .
lestrade went after his man , stangerson , and it appears that he was wrong too .
you have thrown out hints here , and hints there , and seem to know more than we do , but the time has come when we feel that we have a right to ask you straight how much you do know of the business .
can you name the man who did it ? "
" i cannot help feeling that gregson is right , sir , " remarked lestrade .
" we have both tried , and we have both failed .
you have remarked more than once since i have been in the room that you had all the evidence which you require . surely you will not withhold it any longer . "
" any delay in arresting the assassin , " i observed , " might give him time to perpetrate some fresh atrocity . "
thus pressed by us all , holmes showed signs of irresolution .
he continued to walk up and down the room with his head sunk on his chest and his brows drawn down , as was his habit when lost in thought .
" there will be no more murders , " he said at last , stopping abruptly and facing us .
" you can put that consideration out of the question .
you have asked me if i know the name of the assassin .
i do .
the mere knowing of his name is a small thing , however , compared with the power of laying our hands upon him .
this i expect very shortly to do .
i have good hopes of managing it through my own arrangements ; but it is a thing which needs delicate handling , for we have a shrewd and desperate man to deal with , who is supported , as i have had occasion to prove , by another who is as clever as himself .
as long as this man has no idea that anyone can have a clue there is some chance of securing him ; but if he had the slightest suspicion , he would change his name , and vanish in an instant among the four million inhabitants of this great city .
without meaning to hurt either of your feelings , i am bound to say that i consider these men to be more than a match for the official force , and that is why i have not asked your assistance .
if i fail i shall , of course , incur all the blame due to this omission ; but that i am prepared for .
at present i am ready to promise that the instant that i can communicate with you without endangering my own combinations , i shall do so . "
gregson and lestrade seemed to be far from satisfied by this assurance , or by the depreciating allusion to the detective police .
the former had flushed up to the roots of his flaxen hair , while the other 's beady eyes glistened with curiosity and resentment .
neither of them had time to speak , however , before there was a tap at the door , and the spokesman of the street arabs , young wiggins , introduced his insignificant and unsavoury person .
" please , sir , " he said , touching his forelock , " i have the cab downstairs . "
" good boy , " said holmes , blandly .
" why don 't you introduce this pattern at scotland yard ? " he continued , taking a pair of steel handcuffs from a drawer .
" see how beautifully the spring works . they fasten in an instant . "
" the old pattern is good enough , " remarked lestrade , " if we can only find the man to put them on . "
" very good , very good , " said holmes , smiling .
" the cabman may as well help me with my boxes .
just ask him to step up , wiggins . "
i was surprised to find my companion speaking as though he were about to set out on a journey , since he had not said anything to me about it .
there was a small portmanteau in the room , and this he pulled out and began to strap .
he was busily engaged at it when the cabman entered the room .
" just give me a help with this buckle , cabman , " he said , kneeling over his task , and never turning his head .
the fellow came forward with a somewhat sullen , defiant air , and put down his hands to assist .
at that instant there was a sharp click , the jangling of metal , and sherlock holmes sprang to his feet again .
" gentlemen , " he cried , with flashing eyes , " let me introduce you to mr. jefferson hope , the murderer of enoch drebber and of joseph stangerson . "
the whole thing occurred in a moment - so quickly that i had no time to realize it . i have a vivid recollection of that instant , of holmes ' triumphant expression and the ring of his voice , of the cabman 's dazed , savage face , as he glared at the glittering handcuffs , which had appeared as if by magic upon his wrists .
for a second or two we might have been a group of statues .
then , with an inarticulate roar of fury , the prisoner wrenched himself free from holmes 's grasp , and hurled himself through the window .
woodwork and glass gave way before him ; but before he got quite through , gregson , lestrade , and holmes sprang upon him like so many staghounds .
he was dragged back into the room , and then commenced a terrific conflict .
so powerful and so fierce was he , that the four of us were shaken off again and again .
he appeared to have the convulsive strength of a man in an epileptic fit .
his face and hands were terribly mangled by his passage through the glass , but loss of blood had no effect in diminishing his resistance .
it was not until lestrade succeeded in getting his hand inside his neckcloth and half-strangling him that we made him realize that his struggles were of no avail ; and even then we felt no security until we had pinioned his feet as well as his hands .
that done , we rose to our feet breathless and panting .
" we have his cab , " said sherlock holmes .
" it will serve to take him to scotland yard .
and now , gentlemen , " he continued , with a pleasant smile , " we have reached the end of our little mystery .
you are very welcome to put any questions that you like to me now , and there is no danger that i will refuse to answer them . "
part ii . the country of the saints .
chapter i. on the great alkali plain .
in the central portion of the great north american continent there lies an arid and repulsive desert , which for many a long year served as a barrier against the advance of civilisation .
from the sierra nevada to nebraska , and from the yellowstone river in the north to the colorado upon the south , is a region of desolation and silence .
nor is nature always in one mood throughout this grim district .
it comprises snow-capped and lofty mountains , and dark and gloomy valleys .
there are swift-flowing rivers which dash through jagged canons ; and there are enormous plains , which in winter are white with snow , and in summer are grey with the saline alkali dust .
they all preserve , however , the common characteristics of barrenness , inhospitality , and misery .
there are no inhabitants of this land of despair .
a band of pawnees or of blackfeet may occasionally traverse it in order to reach other hunting-grounds , but the hardiest of the braves are glad to lose sight of those awesome plains , and to find themselves once more upon their prairies .
the coyote skulks among the scrub , the buzzard flaps heavily through the air , and the clumsy grizzly bear lumbers through the dark ravines , and picks up such sustenance as it can amongst the rocks . these are the sole dwellers in the wilderness .
in the whole world there can be no more dreary view than that from the northern slope of the sierra blanco .
as far as the eye can reach stretches the great flat plain-land , all dusted over with patches of alkali , and intersected by clumps of the dwarfish chaparral bushes . on the extreme verge of the horizon lie a long chain of mountain peaks , with their rugged summits flecked with snow .
in this great stretch of country there is no sign of life , nor of anything appertaining to life . there is no bird in the steel-blue heaven , no movement upon the dull , grey earth - above all , there is absolute silence .
listen as one may , there is no shadow of a sound in all that mighty wilderness ; nothing but silence - complete and heart-subduing silence .
it has been said there is nothing appertaining to life upon the broad plain .
that is hardly true . looking down from the sierra blanco , one sees a pathway traced out across the desert , which winds away and is lost in the extreme distance .
it is rutted with wheels and trodden down by the feet of many adventurers .
here and there there are scattered white objects which glisten in the sun , and stand out against the dull deposit of alkali . approach , and examine them !
they are bones : some large and coarse , others smaller and more delicate . the former have belonged to oxen , and the latter to men .
for fifteen hundred miles one may trace this ghastly caravan route by these scattered remains of those who had fallen by the wayside .
looking down on this very scene , there stood upon the fourth of may , eighteen hundred and forty-seven , a solitary traveller .
his appearance was such that he might have been the very genius or demon of the region .
an observer would have found it difficult to say whether he was nearer to forty or to sixty .
his face was lean and haggard , and the brown parchment-like skin was drawn tightly over the projecting bones ; his long , brown hair and beard were all flecked and dashed with white ; his eyes were sunken in his head , and burned with an unnatural lustre ; while the hand which grasped his rifle was hardly more fleshy than that of a skeleton .
as he stood , he leaned upon his weapon for support , and yet his tall figure and the massive framework of his bones suggested a wiry and vigorous constitution .
his gaunt face , however , and his clothes , which hung so baggily over his shrivelled limbs , proclaimed what it was that gave him that senile and decrepit appearance . the man was dying - dying from hunger and from thirst .
he had toiled painfully down the ravine , and on to this little elevation , in the vain hope of seeing some signs of water .
now the great salt plain stretched before his eyes , and the distant belt of savage mountains , without a sign anywhere of plant or tree , which might indicate the presence of moisture .
in all that broad landscape there was no gleam of hope .
north , and east , and west he looked with wild questioning eyes , and then he realised that his wanderings had come to an end , and that there , on that barren crag , he was about to die .
" why not here , as well as in a feather bed , twenty years hence , " he muttered , as he seated himself in the shelter of a boulder .
before sitting down , he had deposited upon the ground his useless rifle , and also a large bundle tied up in a grey shawl , which he had carried slung over his right shoulder .
it appeared to be somewhat too heavy for his strength , for in lowering it , it came down on the ground with some little violence .
instantly there broke from the grey parcel a little moaning cry , and from it there protruded a small , scared face , with very bright brown eyes , and two little speckled , dimpled fists .
" you 've hurt me ! " said a childish voice reproachfully .
" have i though , " the man answered penitently , " i didn 't go for to do it . "
as he spoke he unwrapped the grey shawl and extricated a pretty little girl of about five years of age , whose dainty shoes and smart pink frock with its little linen apron all bespoke a mother 's care .
the child was pale and wan , but her healthy arms and legs showed that she had suffered less than her companion .
" how is it now ? " he answered anxiously , for she was still rubbing the towsy golden curls which covered the back of her head .
" kiss it and make it well , " she said , with perfect gravity , shoving the injured part up to him .
" that 's what mother used to do .
where 's mother ? "
" mother 's gone .
i guess you 'll see her before long . "
" gone , eh ! " said the little girl .
" funny , she didn 't say good-bye ; she ' most always did if she was just goin ' over to auntie 's for tea , and now she 's been away three days .
say , it 's awful dry , ain 't it ?
ain 't there no water , nor nothing to eat ? "
" no , there ain 't nothing , dearie .
you 'll just need to be patient awhile , and then you 'll be all right .
put your head up agin me like that , and then you 'll feel bullier .
it ain 't easy to talk when your lips is like leather , but i guess i 'd best let you know how the cards lie . what 's that you 've got ? "
" pretty things ! fine things ! " cried the little girl enthusiastically , holding up two glittering fragments of mica .
" when we goes back to home i 'll give them to brother bob . "
" you 'll see prettier things than them soon , " said the man confidently . " you just wait a bit .
i was going to tell you though - you remember when we left the river ? "
" oh , yes . "
" well , we reckoned we 'd strike another river soon , d 'ye see . but there was somethin ' wrong ; compasses , or map , or somethin ' , and it didn 't turn up .
water ran out . just except a little drop for the likes of you and - and - - "
" and you couldn 't wash yourself , " interrupted his companion gravely , staring up at his grimy visage .
bender , he was the fust to go , and then indian pete , and then mrs. mcgregor , and then johnny hones , and then , dearie , your mother . "
" then mother 's a deader too , " cried the little girl dropping her face in her pinafore and sobbing bitterly .
" yes , they all went except you and me .
then i thought there was some chance of water in this direction , so i heaved you over my shoulder and we tramped it together . it don 't seem as though we 've improved matters .
" do you mean that we are going to die too ? " asked the child , checking her sobs , and raising her tear-stained face .
" i guess that 's about the size of it . "
" why didn 't you say so before ? " she said , laughing gleefully .
" you gave me such a fright .
why , of course , now as long as we die we 'll be with mother again . "
" yes , you will , dearie . "
" and you too .
i 'll tell her how awful good you 've been .
i 'll bet she meets us at the door of heaven with a big pitcher of water , and a lot of buckwheat cakes , hot , and toasted on both sides , like bob and me was fond of .
how long will it be first ? "
" i don 't know - not very long . "
the man 's eyes were fixed upon the northern horizon .
in the blue vault of the heaven there had appeared three little specks which increased in size every moment , so rapidly did they approach .
they speedily resolved themselves into three large brown birds , which circled over the heads of the two wanderers , and then settled upon some rocks which overlooked them .
they were buzzards , the vultures of the west , whose coming is the forerunner of death .
" cocks and hens , " cried the little girl gleefully , pointing at their ill-omened forms , and clapping her hands to make them rise .
" say , did god make this country ? "
" in course he did , " said her companion , rather startled by this unexpected question .
" he made the country down in illinois , and he made the missouri , " the little girl continued . " i guess somebody else made the country in these parts .
it 's not nearly so well done . they forgot the water and the trees . "
" what would ye think of offering up prayer ? " the man asked diffidently .
" it ain 't night yet , " she answered .
" it don 't matter . it ain 't quite regular , but he won 't mind that , you bet .
you say over them ones that you used to say every night in the waggon when we was on the plains . "
" why don 't you say some yourself ? " the child asked , with wondering eyes .
" i disremember them , " he answered .
" i hain 't said none since i was half the height o ' that gun . i guess it 's never too late .
you say them out , and i 'll stand by and come in on the choruses . "
" then you 'll need to kneel down , and me too , " she said , laying the shawl out for that purpose . " you 've got to put your hands up like this .
it was a strange sight had there been anything but the buzzards to see it .
side by side on the narrow shawl knelt the two wanderers , the little prattling child and the reckless , hardened adventurer .
her chubby face , and his haggard , angular visage were both turned up to the cloudless heaven in heartfelt entreaty to that dread being with whom they were face to face , while the two voices - the one thin and clear , the other deep and harsh - united in the entreaty for mercy and forgiveness .
the prayer finished , they resumed their seat in the shadow of the boulder until the child fell asleep , nestling upon the broad breast of her protector .
he watched over her slumber for some time , but nature proved to be too strong for him .
for three days and three nights he had allowed himself neither rest nor repose .
slowly the eyelids drooped over the tired eyes , and the head sunk lower and lower upon the breast , until the man 's grizzled beard was mixed with the gold tresses of his companion , and both slept the same deep and dreamless slumber .
had the wanderer remained awake for another half hour a strange sight would have met his eyes .
far away on the extreme verge of the alkali plain there rose up a little spray of dust , very slight at first , and hardly to be distinguished from the mists of the distance , but gradually growing higher and broader until it formed a solid , well-defined cloud .
this cloud continued to increase in size until it became evident that it could only be raised by a great multitude of moving creatures . in more fertile spots the observer would have come to the conclusion that one of those great herds of bisons which graze upon the prairie land was approaching him .
this was obviously impossible in these arid wilds . as the whirl of dust drew nearer to the solitary bluff upon which the two castaways were reposing , the canvas-covered tilts of waggons and the figures of armed horsemen began to show up through the haze , and the apparition revealed itself as being a great caravan upon its journey for the west .
but what a caravan !
when the head of it had reached the base of the mountains , the rear was not yet visible on the horizon .
right across the enormous plain stretched the straggling array , waggons and carts , men on horseback , and men on foot .
innumerable women who staggered along under burdens , and children who toddled beside the waggons or peeped out from under the white coverings .
this was evidently no ordinary party of immigrants , but rather some nomad people who had been compelled from stress of circumstances to seek themselves a new country .
there rose through the clear air a confused clattering and rumbling from this great mass of humanity , with the creaking of wheels and the neighing of horses .
loud as it was , it was not sufficient to rouse the two tired wayfarers above them .
at the head of the column there rode a score or more of grave ironfaced men , clad in sombre homespun garments and armed with rifles .
on reaching the base of the bluff they halted , and held a short council among themselves .
" the wells are to the right , my brothers , " said one , a hard-lipped , clean-shaven man with grizzly hair .
" to the right of the sierra blanco - so we shall reach the rio grande , " said another .
" fear not for water , " cried a third .
" he who could draw it from the rocks will not now abandon his own chosen people . "
" amen ! amen ! " responded the whole party .
they were about to resume their journey when one of the youngest and keenest-eyed uttered an exclamation and pointed up at the rugged crag above them .
from its summit there fluttered a little wisp of pink , showing up hard and bright against the grey rocks behind .
at the sight there was a general reining up of horses and unslinging of guns , while fresh horsemen came galloping up to reinforce the vanguard .
the word ' redskins ' was on every lip .
" there can 't be any number of injuns here , " said the elderly man who appeared to be in command .
" we have passed the pawnees , and there are no other tribes until we cross the great mountains . "
" shall i go forward and see , brother stangerson , " asked one of the band .
" and i , " " and i , " cried a dozen voices .
" leave your horses below and we will await you here , " the elder answered .
in a moment the young fellows had dismounted , fastened their horses , and were ascending the precipitous slope which led up to the object which had excited their curiosity .
they advanced rapidly and noiselessly , with the confidence and dexterity of practised scouts .
the watchers from the plain below could see them flit from rock to rock until their figures stood out against the skyline .
the young man who had first given the alarm was leading them . suddenly his followers saw him throw up his hands , as though overcome with astonishment , and on joining him they were affected in the same way by the sight which met their eyes .
on the little plateau which crowned the barren hill there stood a single giant boulder , and against this boulder there lay a tall man , long-bearded and hard-featured , but of an excessive thinness .
his placid face and regular breathing showed that he was fast asleep .
beside him lay a little child , with her round white arms encircling his brown sinewy neck , and her golden haired head resting upon the breast of his velveteen tunic .
her rosy lips were parted , showing the regular line of snow-white teeth within , and a playful smile played over her infantile features .
her plump little white legs terminating in white socks and neat shoes with shining buckles , offered a strange contrast to the long shrivelled members of her companion .
on the ledge of rock above this strange couple there stood three solemn buzzards , who , at the sight of the new comers uttered raucous screams of disappointment and flapped sullenly away .
the cries of the foul birds awoke the two sleepers who stared about them in bewilderment .
the man staggered to his feet and looked down upon the plain which had been so desolate when sleep had overtaken him , and which was now traversed by this enormous body of men and of beasts .
his face assumed an expression of incredulity as he gazed , and he passed his boney hand over his eyes .
" this is what they call delirium , i guess , " he muttered .
the child stood beside him , holding on to the skirt of his coat , and said nothing but looked all round her with the wondering questioning gaze of childhood .
the rescuing party were speedily able to convince the two castaways that their appearance was no delusion .
one of them seized the little girl , and hoisted her upon his shoulder , while two others supported her gaunt companion , and assisted him towards the waggons .
" my name is john ferrier , " the wanderer explained ; " me and that little un are all that 's left o ' twenty-one people .
the rest is all dead o ' thirst and hunger away down in the south . "
" is she your child ? " asked someone .
" i guess she is now , " the other cried , defiantly ; " she 's mine ' cause i saved her . no man will take her from me .
she 's lucy ferrier from this day on .
who are you , though ? " he continued , glancing with curiosity at his stalwart , sunburned rescuers ; " there seems to be a powerful lot of ye . "
" nigh upon ten thousand , " said one of the young men ; " we are the persecuted children of god - the chosen of the angel merona . "
" i never heard tell on him , " said the wanderer . " he appears to have chosen a fair crowd of ye . "
" do not jest at that which is sacred , " said the other sternly .
" we are of those who believe in those sacred writings , drawn in egyptian letters on plates of beaten gold , which were handed unto the holy joseph smith at palmyra .
we have come from nauvoo , in the state of illinois , where we had founded our temple .
we have come to seek a refuge from the violent man and from the godless , even though it be the heart of the desert . "
the name of nauvoo evidently recalled recollections to john ferrier .
" i see , " he said , " you are the mormons . "
" we are the mormons , " answered his companions with one voice .
" and where are you going ? "
" we do not know .
the hand of god is leading us under the person of our prophet .
you must come before him . he shall say what is to be done with you . "
they had reached the base of the hill by this time , and were surrounded by crowds of the pilgrims - pale-faced meek-looking women , strong laughing children , and anxious earnest-eyed men .
many were the cries of astonishment and of commiseration which arose from them when they perceived the youth of one of the strangers and the destitution of the other .
their escort did not halt , however , but pushed on , followed by a great crowd of mormons , until they reached a waggon , which was conspicuous for its great size and for the gaudiness and smartness of its appearance .
six horses were yoked to it , whereas the others were furnished with two , or , at most , four a-piece .
beside the driver there sat a man who could not have been more than thirty years of age , but whose massive head and resolute expression marked him as a leader .
he was reading a brown-backed volume , but as the crowd approached he laid it aside , and listened attentively to an account of the episode .
then he turned to the two castaways .
" if we take you with us , " he said , in solemn words , " it can only be as believers in our own creed .
we shall have no wolves in our fold .
better far that your bones should bleach in this wilderness than that you should prove to be that little speck of decay which in time corrupts the whole fruit .
will you come with us on these terms ? "
" guess i 'll come with you on any terms , " said ferrier , with such emphasis that the grave elders could not restrain a smile . the leader alone retained his stern , impressive expression .
" take him , brother stangerson , " he said , " give him food and drink , and the child likewise . let it be your task also to teach him our holy creed .
we have delayed long enough . forward !
" on , on to zion ! " cried the crowd of mormons , and the words rippled down the long caravan , passing from mouth to mouth until they died away in a dull murmur in the far distance .
with a cracking of whips and a creaking of wheels the great waggons got into motion , and soon the whole caravan was winding along once more .
the elder to whose care the two waifs had been committed , led them to his waggon , where a meal was already awaiting them .
" you shall remain here , " he said .
" in a few days you will have recovered from your fatigues .
in the meantime , remember that now and for ever you are of our religion .
brigham young has said it , and he has spoken with the voice of joseph smith , which is the voice of god . "
chapter ii . the flower of utah .
this is not the place to commemorate the trials and privations endured by the immigrant mormons before they came to their final haven .
from the shores of the mississippi to the western slopes of the rocky mountains they had struggled on with a constancy almost unparalleled in history .
the savage man , and the savage beast , hunger , thirst , fatigue , and disease - every impediment which nature could place in the way , had all been overcome with anglo-saxon tenacity .
yet the long journey and the accumulated terrors had shaken the hearts of the stoutest among them .
there was not one who did not sink upon his knees in heartfelt prayer when they saw the broad valley of utah bathed in the sunlight beneath them , and learned from the lips of their leader that this was the promised land , and that these virgin acres were to be theirs for evermore .
young speedily proved himself to be a skilful administrator as well as a resolute chief .
maps were drawn and charts prepared , in which the future city was sketched out . all around farms were apportioned and allotted in proportion to the standing of each individual .
the tradesman was put to his trade and the artisan to his calling .
in the town streets and squares sprang up , as if by magic .
in the country there was draining and hedging , planting and clearing , until the next summer saw the whole country golden with the wheat crop .
everything prospered in the strange settlement .
above all , the great temple which they had erected in the centre of the city grew ever taller and larger .
from the first blush of dawn until the closing of the twilight , the clatter of the hammer and the rasp of the saw was never absent from the monument which the immigrants erected to him who had led them safe through many dangers .
the two castaways , john ferrier and the little girl who had shared his fortunes and had been adopted as his daughter , accompanied the mormons to the end of their great pilgrimage .
little lucy ferrier was borne along pleasantly enough in elder stangerson 's waggon , a retreat which she shared with the mormon 's three wives and with his son , a headstrong forward boy of twelve .
having rallied , with the elasticity of childhood , from the shock caused by her mother 's death , she soon became a pet with the women , and reconciled herself to this new life in her moving canvas-covered home .
in the meantime ferrier having recovered from his privations , distinguished himself as a useful guide and an indefatigable hunter .
so rapidly did he gain the esteem of his new companions , that when they reached the end of their wanderings , it was unanimously agreed that he should be provided with as large and as fertile a tract of land as any of the settlers , with the exception of young himself , and of stangerson , kemball , johnston , and drebber , who were the four principal elders .
on the farm thus acquired john ferrier built himself a substantial log-house , which received so many additions in succeeding years that it grew into a roomy villa .
he was a man of a practical turn of mind , keen in his dealings and skilful with his hands .
his iron constitution enabled him to work morning and evening at improving and tilling his lands .
hence it came about that his farm and all that belonged to him prospered exceedingly .
in three years he was better off than his neighbours , in six he was well-to-do , in nine he was rich , and in twelve there were not half a dozen men in the whole of salt lake city who could compare with him .
from the great inland sea to the distant wahsatch mountains there was no name better known than that of john ferrier .
there was one way and only one in which he offended the susceptibilities of his co-religionists . no argument or persuasion could ever induce him to set up a female establishment after the manner of his companions .
he never gave reasons for this persistent refusal , but contented himself by resolutely and inflexibly adhering to his determination .
there were some who accused him of lukewarmness in his adopted religion , and others who put it down to greed of wealth and reluctance to incur expense .
others , again , spoke of some early love affair , and of a fair-haired girl who had pined away on the shores of the atlantic .
whatever the reason , ferrier remained strictly celibate .
in every other respect he conformed to the religion of the young settlement , and gained the name of being an orthodox and straight-walking man .
lucy ferrier grew up within the log-house , and assisted her adopted father in all his undertakings .
the keen air of the mountains and the balsamic odour of the pine trees took the place of nurse and mother to the young girl .
as year succeeded to year she grew taller and stronger , her cheek more rudy , and her step more elastic .
many a wayfarer upon the high road which ran by ferrier 's farm felt long-forgotten thoughts revive in their mind as they watched her lithe girlish figure tripping through the wheatfields , or met her mounted upon her father 's mustang , and managing it with all the ease and grace of a true child of the west .
so the bud blossomed into a flower , and the year which saw her father the richest of the farmers left her as fair a specimen of american girlhood as could be found in the whole pacific slope .
it was not the father , however , who first discovered that the child had developed into the woman .
it seldom is in such cases . that mysterious change is too subtle and too gradual to be measured by dates .
least of all does the maiden herself know it until the tone of a voice or the touch of a hand sets her heart thrilling within her , and she learns , with a mixture of pride and of fear , that a new and a larger nature has awoken within her .
there are few who cannot recall that day and remember the one little incident which heralded the dawn of a new life .
in the case of lucy ferrier the occasion was serious enough in itself , apart from its future influence on her destiny and that of many besides .
it was a warm june morning , and the latter day saints were as busy as the bees whose hive they have chosen for their emblem .
in the fields and in the streets rose the same hum of human industry .
down the dusty high roads defiled long streams of heavily-laden mules , all heading to the west , for the gold fever had broken out in california , and the overland route lay through the city of the elect .
there , too , were droves of sheep and bullocks coming in from the outlying pasture lands , and trains of tired immigrants , men and horses equally weary of their interminable journey .
through all this motley assemblage , threading her way with the skill of an accomplished rider , there galloped lucy ferrier , her fair face flushed with the exercise and her long chestnut hair floating out behind her .
she had a commission from her father in the city , and was dashing in as she had done many a time before , with all the fearlessness of youth , thinking only of her task and how it was to be performed .
the travel-stained adventurers gazed after her in astonishment , and even the unemotional indians , journeying in with their pelties , relaxed their accustomed stoicism as they marvelled at the beauty of the pale-faced maiden .
she had reached the outskirts of the city when she found the road blocked by a great drove of cattle , driven by a half-dozen wild-looking herdsmen from the plains .
in her impatience she endeavoured to pass this obstacle by pushing her horse into what appeared to be a gap .
scarcely had she got fairly into it , however , before the beasts closed in behind her , and she found herself completely imbedded in the moving stream of fierce-eyed , long-horned bullocks .
accustomed as she was to deal with cattle , she was not alarmed at her situation , but took advantage of every opportunity to urge her horse on in the hopes of pushing her way through the cavalcade . unfortunately the horns of one of the creatures , either by accident or design , came in violent contact with the flank of the mustang , and excited it to madness .
in an instant it reared up upon its hind legs with a snort of rage , and pranced and tossed in a way that would have unseated any but a most skilful rider .
the situation was full of peril .
every plunge of the excited horse brought it against the horns again , and goaded it to fresh madness . it was all that the girl could do to keep herself in the saddle , yet a slip would mean a terrible death under the hoofs of the unwieldy and terrified animals .
unaccustomed to sudden emergencies , her head began to swim , and her grip upon the bridle to relax .
choked by the rising cloud of dust and by the steam from the struggling creatures , she might have abandoned her efforts in despair , but for a kindly voice at her elbow which assured her of assistance .
at the same moment a sinewy brown hand caught the frightened horse by the curb , and forcing a way through the drove , soon brought her to the outskirts .
" you 're not hurt , i hope , miss , " said her preserver , respectfully .
she looked up at his dark , fierce face , and laughed saucily . " i 'm awful frightened , " she said , naively ; " whoever would have thought that poncho would have been so scared by a lot of cows ? "
" thank god you kept your seat , " the other said earnestly .
he was a tall , savage-looking young fellow , mounted on a powerful roan horse , and clad in the rough dress of a hunter , with a long rifle slung over his shoulders .
" i guess you are the daughter of john ferrier , " he remarked , " i saw you ride down from his house .
when you see him , ask him if he remembers the jefferson hopes of st. louis .
if he 's the same ferrier , my father and he were pretty thick . "
" hadn 't you better come and ask yourself ? " she asked , demurely .
the young fellow seemed pleased at the suggestion , and his dark eyes sparkled with pleasure .
" i 'll do so , " he said , " we 've been in the mountains for two months , and are not over and above in visiting condition .
he must take us as he finds us . "
" he has a good deal to thank you for , and so have i , " she answered , " he 's awful fond of me .
if those cows had jumped on me he 'd have never got over it . "
" neither would i , " said her companion .
well , i don 't see that it would make much matter to you , anyhow . you ain 't even a friend of ours . "
the young hunter 's dark face grew so gloomy over this remark that lucy ferrier laughed aloud .
" there , i didn 't mean that , " she said ; " of course , you are a friend now . you must come and see us .
now i must push along , or father won 't trust me with his business any more . good-bye ! "
" good-bye , " he answered , raising his broad sombrero , and bending over her little hand .
she wheeled her mustang round , gave it a cut with her riding-whip , and darted away down the broad road in a rolling cloud of dust .
young jefferson hope rode on with his companions , gloomy and taciturn .
he and they had been among the nevada mountains prospecting for silver , and were returning to salt lake city in the hope of raising capital enough to work some lodes which they had discovered . he had been as keen as any of them upon the business until this sudden incident had drawn his thoughts into another channel .
the sight of the fair young girl , as frank and wholesome as the sierra breezes , had stirred his volcanic , untamed heart to its very depths .
when she had vanished from his sight , he realized that a crisis had come in his life , and that neither silver speculations nor any other questions could ever be of such importance to him as this new and all-absorbing one .
the love which had sprung up in his heart was not the sudden , changeable fancy of a boy , but rather the wild , fierce passion of a man of strong will and imperious temper .
he had been accustomed to succeed in all that he undertook .
he swore in his heart that he would not fail in this if human effort and human perseverance could render him successful .
he called on john ferrier that night , and many times again , until his face was a familiar one at the farm-house .
john , cooped up in the valley , and absorbed in his work , had had little chance of learning the news of the outside world during the last twelve years .
all this jefferson hope was able to tell him , and in a style which interested lucy as well as her father .
he had been a pioneer in california , and could narrate many a strange tale of fortunes made and fortunes lost in those wild , halcyon days .
he had been a scout too , and a trapper , a silver explorer , and a ranchman . wherever stirring adventures were to be had , jefferson hope had been there in search of them .
he soon became a favourite with the old farmer , who spoke eloquently of his virtues .
on such occasions , lucy was silent , but her blushing cheek and her bright , happy eyes , showed only too clearly that her young heart was no longer her own .
her honest father may not have observed these symptoms , but they were assuredly not thrown away upon the man who had won her affections .
it was a summer evening when he came galloping down the road and pulled up at the gate . she was at the doorway , and came down to meet him .
" i am off , lucy , " he said , taking her two hands in his , and gazing tenderly down into her face ; " i won 't ask you to come with me now , but will you be ready to come when i am here again ? "
" and when will that be ? " she asked , blushing and laughing .
" a couple of months at the outside . i will come and claim you then , my darling .
there 's no one who can stand between us . "
" and how about father ? " she asked .
" he has given his consent , provided we get these mines working all right .
i have no fear on that head . "
" oh , well ; of course , if you and father have arranged it all , there 's no more to be said , " she whispered , with her cheek against his broad breast .
" thank god ! " he said , hoarsely , stooping and kissing her . " it is settled , then .
the longer i stay , the harder it will be to go . they are waiting for me at the canon .
he tore himself from her as he spoke , and , flinging himself upon his horse , galloped furiously away , never even looking round , as though afraid that his resolution might fail him if he took one glance at what he was leaving .
she stood at the gate , gazing after him until he vanished from her sight .
then she walked back into the house , the happiest girl in all utah .
chapter iii . john ferrier talks with the prophet .
three weeks had passed since jefferson hope and his comrades had departed from salt lake city .
john ferrier 's heart was sore within him when he thought of the young man 's return , and of the impending loss of his adopted child .
yet her bright and happy face reconciled him to the arrangement more than any argument could have done .
he had always determined , deep down in his resolute heart , that nothing would ever induce him to allow his daughter to wed a mormon .
such a marriage he regarded as no marriage at all , but as a shame and a disgrace . whatever he might think of the mormon doctrines , upon that one point he was inflexible .
he had to seal his mouth on the subject , however , for to express an unorthodox opinion was a dangerous matter in those days in the land of the saints .
yes , a dangerous matter - so dangerous that even the most saintly dared only whisper their religious opinions with bated breath , lest something which fell from their lips might be misconstrued , and bring down a swift retribution upon them .
the victims of persecution had now turned persecutors on their own account , and persecutors of the most terrible description .
not the inquisition of seville , nor the german vehm-gericht , nor the secret societies of italy , were ever able to put a more formidable machinery in motion than that which cast a cloud over the state of utah .
its invisibility , and the mystery which was attached to it , made this organization doubly terrible .
it appeared to be omniscient and omnipotent , and yet was neither seen nor heard .
the man who held out against the church vanished away , and none knew whither he had gone or what had befallen him .
his wife and his children awaited him at home , but no father ever returned to tell them how he had fared at the hands of his secret judges .
a rash word or a hasty act was followed by annihilation , and yet none knew what the nature might be of this terrible power which was suspended over them .
no wonder that men went about in fear and trembling , and that even in the heart of the wilderness they dared not whisper the doubts which oppressed them .
at first this vague and terrible power was exercised only upon the recalcitrants who , having embraced the mormon faith , wished afterwards to pervert or to abandon it .
soon , however , it took a wider range .
the supply of adult women was running short , and polygamy without a female population on which to draw was a barren doctrine indeed .
strange rumours began to be bandied about - rumours of murdered immigrants and rifled camps in regions where indians had never been seen .
fresh women appeared in the harems of the elders - women who pined and wept , and bore upon their faces the traces of an unextinguishable horror .
belated wanderers upon the mountains spoke of gangs of armed men , masked , stealthy , and noiseless , who flitted by them in the darkness .
these tales and rumours took substance and shape , and were corroborated and re-corroborated , until they resolved themselves into a definite name .
to this day , in the lonely ranches of the west , the name of the danite band , or the avenging angels , is a sinister and an ill-omened one .
fuller knowledge of the organization which produced such terrible results served to increase rather than to lessen the horror which it inspired in the minds of men .
none knew who belonged to this ruthless society . the names of the participators in the deeds of blood and violence done under the name of religion were kept profoundly secret .
the very friend to whom you communicated your misgivings as to the prophet and his mission , might be one of those who would come forth at night with fire and sword to exact a terrible reparation .
hence every man feared his neighbour , and none spoke of the things which were nearest his heart .
one fine morning , john ferrier was about to set out to his wheatfields , when he heard the click of the latch , and , looking through the window , saw a stout , sandy-haired , middle-aged man coming up the pathway .
his heart leapt to his mouth , for this was none other than the great brigham young himself .
full of trepidation - for he knew that such a visit boded him little good - ferrier ran to the door to greet the mormon chief . the latter , however , received his salutations coldly , and followed him with a stern face into the sitting-room .
" brother ferrier , " he said , taking a seat , and eyeing the farmer keenly from under his light-coloured eyelashes , " the true believers have been good friends to you .
we picked you up when you were starving in the desert , we shared our food with you , led you safe to the chosen valley , gave you a goodly share of land , and allowed you to wax rich under our protection .
is not this so ? "
" it is so , " answered john ferrier .
" in return for all this we asked but one condition : that was , that you should embrace the true faith , and conform in every way to its usages .
this you promised to do , and this , if common report says truly , you have neglected . "
" and how have i neglected it ? " asked ferrier , throwing out his hands in expostulation .
" have i not given to the common fund ?
have i not attended at the temple ?
have i not - - ? "
" where are your wives ? " asked young , looking round him .
" call them in , that i may greet them . "
" it is true that i have not married , " ferrier answered . " but women were few , and there were many who had better claims than i. i was not a lonely man : i had my daughter to attend to my wants . "
" it is of that daughter that i would speak to you , " said the leader of the mormons .
" she has grown to be the flower of utah , and has found favour in the eyes of many who are high in the land . "
john ferrier groaned internally .
" there are stories of her which i would fain disbelieve - stories that she is sealed to some gentile .
this must be the gossip of idle tongues .
what is the thirteenth rule in the code of the sainted joseph smith ?
'let every maiden of the true faith marry one of the elect ; for if she wed a gentile , she commits a grievous sin . '
this being so , it is impossible that you , who profess the holy creed , should suffer your daughter to violate it . "
john ferrier made no answer , but he played nervously with his riding-whip .
" upon this one point your whole faith shall be tested - so it has been decided in the sacred council of four .
the girl is young , and we would not have her wed grey hairs , neither would we deprive her of all choice . we elders have many heifers , but our children must also be provided .
stangerson has a son , and drebber has a son , and either of them would gladly welcome your daughter to their house .
let her choose between them .
they are young and rich , and of the true faith .
what say you to that ? "
ferrier remained silent for some little time with his brows knitted .
" you will give us time , " he said at last .
" my daughter is very young - she is scarce of an age to marry . "
" she shall have a month to choose , " said young , rising from his seat .
" at the end of that time she shall give her answer . "
he was passing through the door , when he turned , with flushed face and flashing eyes . " it were better for you , john ferrier , " he thundered , " that you and she were now lying blanched skeletons upon the sierra blanco , than that you should put your weak wills against the orders of the holy four ! "
with a threatening gesture of his hand , he turned from the door , and ferrier heard his heavy step scrunching along the shingly path .
he was still sitting with his elbows upon his knees , considering how he should broach the matter to his daughter when a soft hand was laid upon his , and looking up , he saw her standing beside him .
one glance at her pale , frightened face showed him that she had heard what had passed .
" i could not help it , " she said , in answer to his look . " his voice rang through the house .
oh , father , father , what shall we do ? "
" don 't you scare yourself , " he answered , drawing her to him , and passing his broad , rough hand caressingly over her chestnut hair . " we 'll fix it up somehow or another .
you don 't find your fancy kind o ' lessening for this chap , do you ? "
a sob and a squeeze of his hand was her only answer .
" no ; of course not . i shouldn 't care to hear you say you did .
he 's a likely lad , and he 's a christian , which is more than these folk here , in spite o ' all their praying and preaching .
there 's a party starting for nevada to-morrow , and i 'll manage to send him a message letting him know the hole we are in .
if i know anything o ' that young man , he 'll be back here with a speed that would whip electro-telegraphs . "
lucy laughed through her tears at her father 's description .
" when he comes , he will advise us for the best .
but it is for you that i am frightened , dear .
one hears - one hears such dreadful stories about those who oppose the prophet : something terrible always happens to them . "
" but we haven 't opposed him yet , " her father answered .
" it will be time to look out for squalls when we do . we have a clear month before us ; at the end of that , i guess we had best shin out of utah . "
" leave utah ! "
" that 's about the size of it . "
" but the farm ? "
" we will raise as much as we can in money , and let the rest go .
to tell the truth , lucy , it isn 't the first time i have thought of doing it . i don 't care about knuckling under to any man , as these folk do to their darned prophet .
i 'm a free-born american , and it 's all new to me . guess i 'm too old to learn .
if he comes browsing about this farm , he might chance to run up against a charge of buckshot travelling in the opposite direction . "
" but they won 't let us leave , " his daughter objected .
" wait till jefferson comes , and we 'll soon manage that .
in the meantime , don 't you fret yourself , my dearie , and don 't get your eyes swelled up , else he 'll be walking into me when he sees you .
there 's nothing to be afeared about , and there 's no danger at all . "
john ferrier uttered these consoling remarks in a very confident tone , but she could not help observing that he paid unusual care to the fastening of the doors that night , and that he carefully cleaned and loaded the rusty old shotgun which hung upon the wall of his bedroom .
chapter iv . a flight for life .
on the morning which followed his interview with the mormon prophet , john ferrier went in to salt lake city , and having found his acquaintance , who was bound for the nevada mountains , he entrusted him with his message to jefferson hope .
in it he told the young man of the imminent danger which threatened them , and how necessary it was that he should return .
having done thus he felt easier in his mind , and returned home with a lighter heart .
as he approached his farm , he was surprised to see a horse hitched to each of the posts of the gate . still more surprised was he on entering to find two young men in possession of his sitting-room .
one , with a long pale face , was leaning back in the rocking-chair , with his feet cocked up upon the stove .
the other , a bull-necked youth with coarse bloated features , was standing in front of the window with his hands in his pocket , whistling a popular hymn .
both of them nodded to ferrier as he entered , and the one in the rocking-chair commenced the conversation .
" maybe you don 't know us , " he said .
" this here is the son of elder drebber , and i 'm joseph stangerson , who travelled with you in the desert when the lord stretched out his hand and gathered you into the true fold . "
" as he will all the nations in his own good time , " said the other in a nasal voice ; " he grindeth slowly but exceeding small . "
john ferrier bowed coldly .
he had guessed who his visitors were .
" we have come , " continued stangerson , " at the advice of our fathers to solicit the hand of your daughter for whichever of us may seem good to you and to her . as i have but four wives and brother drebber here has seven , it appears to me that my claim is the stronger one . "
" nay , nay , brother stangerson , " cried the other ; " the question is not how many wives we have , but how many we can keep .
my father has now given over his mills to me , and i am the richer man . "
" but my prospects are better , " said the other , warmly .
" when the lord removes my father , i shall have his tanning yard and his leather factory .
then i am your elder , and am higher in the church . "
" it will be for the maiden to decide , " rejoined young drebber , smirking at his own reflection in the glass .
" we will leave it all to her decision . "
during this dialogue , john ferrier had stood fuming in the doorway , hardly able to keep his riding-whip from the backs of his two visitors .
" look here , " he said at last , striding up to them , " when my daughter summons you , you can come , but until then i don 't want to see your faces again . "
the two young mormons stared at him in amazement .
in their eyes this competition between them for the maiden 's hand was the highest of honours both to her and her father .
" there are two ways out of the room , " cried ferrier ; " there is the door , and there is the window .
which do you care to use ? "
his brown face looked so savage , and his gaunt hands so threatening , that his visitors sprang to their feet and beat a hurried retreat .
the old farmer followed them to the door .
" let me know when you have settled which it is to be , " he said , sardonically .
" you shall smart for this ! " stangerson cried , white with rage .
" you have defied the prophet and the council of four .
you shall rue it to the end of your days . "
" the hand of the lord shall be heavy upon you , " cried young drebber ; " he will arise and smite you ! "
" then i 'll start the smiting , " exclaimed ferrier furiously , and would have rushed upstairs for his gun had not lucy seized him by the arm and restrained him .
before he could escape from her , the clatter of horses ' hoofs told him that they were beyond his reach .
" the young canting rascals ! " he exclaimed , wiping the perspiration from his forehead ; " i would sooner see you in your grave , my girl , than the wife of either of them . "
" and so should i , father , " she answered , with spirit ; " but jefferson will soon be here . "
it will not be long before he comes . the sooner the better , for we do not know what their next move may be . "
it was , indeed , high time that someone capable of giving advice and help should come to the aid of the sturdy old farmer and his adopted daughter .
in the whole history of the settlement there had never been such a case of rank disobedience to the authority of the elders .
if minor errors were punished so sternly , what would be the fate of this arch rebel .
ferrier knew that his wealth and position would be of no avail to him .
others as well known and as rich as himself had been spirited away before now , and their goods given over to the church .
he was a brave man , but he trembled at the vague , shadowy terrors which hung over him .
any known danger he could face with a firm lip , but this suspense was unnerving .
he concealed his fears from his daughter , however , and affected to make light of the whole matter , though she , with the keen eye of love , saw plainly that he was ill at ease .
he expected that he would receive some message or remonstrance from young as to his conduct , and he was not mistaken , though it came in an unlooked-for manner .
upon rising next morning he found , to his surprise , a small square of paper pinned on to the coverlet of his bed just over his chest .
on it was printed , in bold straggling letters : -
" twenty-nine days are given you for amendment , and then - - "
the dash was more fear-inspiring than any threat could have been .
how this warning came into his room puzzled john ferrier sorely , for his servants slept in an outhouse , and the doors and windows had all been secured .
he crumpled the paper up and said nothing to his daughter , but the incident struck a chill into his heart .
the twenty-nine days were evidently the balance of the month which young had promised .
what strength or courage could avail against an enemy armed with such mysterious powers ?
the hand which fastened that pin might have struck him to the heart , and he could never have known who had slain him .
still more shaken was he next morning .
they had sat down to their breakfast when lucy with a cry of surprise pointed upwards . in the centre of the ceiling was scrawled , with a burned stick apparently , the number 28 .
to his daughter it was unintelligible , and he did not enlighten her .
that night he sat up with his gun and kept watch and ward .
he saw and he heard nothing , and yet in the morning a great 27 had been painted upon the outside of his door .
thus day followed day ; and as sure as morning came he found that his unseen enemies had kept their register , and had marked up in some conspicuous position how many days were still left to him out of the month of grace .
sometimes the fatal numbers appeared upon the walls , sometimes upon the floors , occasionally they were on small placards stuck upon the garden gate or the railings .
with all his vigilance john ferrier could not discover whence these daily warnings proceeded .
a horror which was almost superstitious came upon him at the sight of them .
he became haggard and restless , and his eyes had the troubled look of some hunted creature .
he had but one hope in life now , and that was for the arrival of the young hunter from nevada .
twenty had changed to fifteen and fifteen to ten , but there was no news of the absentee . one by one the numbers dwindled down , and still there came no sign of him .
whenever a horseman clattered down the road , or a driver shouted at his team , the old farmer hurried to the gate thinking that help had arrived at last .
at last , when he saw five give way to four and that again to three , he lost heart , and abandoned all hope of escape .
single-handed , and with his limited knowledge of the mountains which surrounded the settlement , he knew that he was powerless .
the more-frequented roads were strictly watched and guarded , and none could pass along them without an order from the council .
turn which way he would , there appeared to be no avoiding the blow which hung over him .
yet the old man never wavered in his resolution to part with life itself before he consented to what he regarded as his daughter 's dishonour .
he was sitting alone one evening pondering deeply over his troubles , and searching vainly for some way out of them .
that morning had shown the figure 2 upon the wall of his house , and the next day would be the last of the allotted time .
what was to happen then ?
all manner of vague and terrible fancies filled his imagination .
and his daughter - what was to become of her after he was gone ?
was there no escape from the invisible network which was drawn all round them .
he sank his head upon the table and sobbed at the thought of his own impotence .
what was that ?
in the silence he heard a gentle scratching sound - low , but very distinct in the quiet of the night . it came from the door of the house .
ferrier crept into the hall and listened intently .
there was a pause for a few moments , and then the low insidious sound was repeated .
someone was evidently tapping very gently upon one of the panels of the door .
was it some midnight assassin who had come to carry out the murderous orders of the secret tribunal ? or was it some agent who was marking up that the last day of grace had arrived .
john ferrier felt that instant death would be better than the suspense which shook his nerves and chilled his heart . springing forward he drew the bolt and threw the door open .
outside all was calm and quiet .
the night was fine , and the stars were twinkling brightly overhead .
the little front garden lay before the farmer 's eyes bounded by the fence and gate , but neither there nor on the road was any human being to be seen .
with a sigh of relief , ferrier looked to right and to left , until happening to glance straight down at his own feet he saw to his astonishment a man lying flat upon his face upon the ground , with arms and legs all asprawl .
so unnerved was he at the sight that he leaned up against the wall with his hand to his throat to stifle his inclination to call out .
his first thought was that the prostrate figure was that of some wounded or dying man , but as he watched it he saw it writhe along the ground and into the hall with the rapidity and noiselessness of a serpent . once within the house the man sprang to his feet , closed the door , and revealed to the astonished farmer the fierce face and resolute expression of jefferson hope .
" good god ! " gasped john ferrier . " how you scared me !
whatever made you come in like that . "
" give me food , " the other said , hoarsely .
" i have had no time for bite or sup for eight-and-forty hours . "
he flung himself upon the cold meat and bread which were still lying upon the table from his host 's supper , and devoured it voraciously .
" does lucy bear up well ? " he asked , when he had satisfied his hunger .
" yes . she does not know the danger , " her father answered .
" that is well .
the house is watched on every side . that is why i crawled my way up to it .
they may be darned sharp , but they 're not quite sharp enough to catch a washoe hunter . "
john ferrier felt a different man now that he realized that he had a devoted ally .
he seized the young man 's leathery hand and wrung it cordially .
" you 're a man to be proud of , " he said .
" there are not many who would come to share our danger and our troubles . "
" you 've hit it there , pard , " the young hunter answered .
" i have a respect for you , but if you were alone in this business i 'd think twice before i put my head into such a hornet 's nest .
it 's lucy that brings me here , and before harm comes on her i guess there will be one less o ' the hope family in utah . "
" what are we to do ? "
" to-morrow is your last day , and unless you act to-night you are lost .
i have a mule and two horses waiting in the eagle ravine .
how much money have you ? "
" two thousand dollars in gold , and five in notes . "
" that will do .
i have as much more to add to it .
we must push for carson city through the mountains . you had best wake lucy .
it is as well that the servants do not sleep in the house . "
while ferrier was absent , preparing his daughter for the approaching journey , jefferson hope packed all the eatables that he could find into a small parcel , and filled a stoneware jar with water , for he knew by experience that the mountain wells were few and far between .
he had hardly completed his arrangements before the farmer returned with his daughter all dressed and ready for a start .
the greeting between the lovers was warm , but brief , for minutes were precious , and there was much to be done .
" we must make our start at once , " said jefferson hope , speaking in a low but resolute voice , like one who realizes the greatness of the peril , but has steeled his heart to meet it .
" the front and back entrances are watched , but with caution we may get away through the side window and across the fields .
once on the road we are only two miles from the ravine where the horses are waiting . by daybreak we should be half-way through the mountains . "
" what if we are stopped , " asked ferrier . hope slapped the revolver butt which protruded from the front of his tunic .
" if they are too many for us we shall take two or three of them with us , " he said with a sinister smile .
the lights inside the house had all been extinguished , and from the darkened window ferrier peered over the fields which had been his own , and which he was now about to abandon for ever .
he had long nerved himself to the sacrifice , however , and the thought of the honour and happiness of his daughter outweighed any regret at his ruined fortunes .
all looked so peaceful and happy , the rustling trees and the broad silent stretch of grain-land , that it was difficult to realize that the spirit of murder lurked through it all .
yet the white face and set expression of the young hunter showed that in his approach to the house he had seen enough to satisfy him upon that head .
ferrier carried the bag of gold and notes , jefferson hope had the scanty provisions and water , while lucy had a small bundle containing a few of her more valued possessions .
opening the window very slowly and carefully , they waited until a dark cloud had somewhat obscured the night , and then one by one passed through into the little garden . with bated breath and crouching figures they stumbled across it , and gained the shelter of the hedge , which they skirted until they came to the gap which opened into the cornfields .
they had just reached this point when the young man seized his two companions and dragged them down into the shadow , where they lay silent and trembling .
it was as well that his prairie training had given jefferson hope the ears of a lynx . he and his friends had hardly crouched down before the melancholy hooting of a mountain owl was heard within a few yards of them , which was immediately answered by another hoot at a small distance .
at the same moment a vague shadowy figure emerged from the gap for which they had been making , and uttered the plaintive signal cry again , on which a second man appeared out of the obscurity .
" to-morrow at midnight , " said the first who appeared to be in authority . " when the whip-poor-will calls three times . "
" it is well , " returned the other .
" shall i tell brother drebber ? "
" pass it on to him , and from him to the others . nine to seven ! "
" seven to five ! " repeated the other , and the two figures flitted away in different directions .
their concluding words had evidently been some form of sign and countersign .
the instant that their footsteps had died away in the distance , jefferson hope sprang to his feet , and helping his companions through the gap , led the way across the fields at the top of his speed , supporting and half-carrying the girl when her strength appeared to fail her .
" hurry on ! hurry on ! " he gasped from time to time .
" we are through the line of sentinels . everything depends on speed .
hurry on ! "
once on the high road they made rapid progress . only once did they meet anyone , and then they managed to slip into a field , and so avoid recognition .
before reaching the town the hunter branched away into a rugged and narrow footpath which led to the mountains .
two dark jagged peaks loomed above them through the darkness , and the defile which led between them was the eagle canon in which the horses were awaiting them .
with unerring instinct jefferson hope picked his way among the great boulders and along the bed of a dried-up watercourse , until he came to the retired corner , screened with rocks , where the faithful animals had been picketed .
the girl was placed upon the mule , and old ferrier upon one of the horses , with his money-bag , while jefferson hope led the other along the precipitous and dangerous path .
it was a bewildering route for anyone who was not accustomed to face nature in her wildest moods .
on the one side a great crag towered up a thousand feet or more , black , stern , and menacing , with long basaltic columns upon its rugged surface like the ribs of some petrified monster . on the other hand a wild chaos of boulders and debris made all advance impossible .
between the two ran the irregular track , so narrow in places that they had to travel in indian file , and so rough that only practised riders could have traversed it at all .
yet in spite of all dangers and difficulties , the hearts of the fugitives were light within them , for every step increased the distance between them and the terrible despotism from which they were flying .
they soon had a proof , however , that they were still within the jurisdiction of the saints .
they had reached the very wildest and most desolate portion of the pass when the girl gave a startled cry , and pointed upwards .
on a rock which overlooked the track , showing out dark and plain against the sky , there stood a solitary sentinel .
he saw them as soon as they perceived him , and his military challenge of " who goes there ? " rang through the silent ravine .
" travellers for nevada , " said jefferson hope , with his hand upon the rifle which hung by his saddle .
they could see the lonely watcher fingering his gun , and peering down at them as if dissatisfied at their reply .
" by whose permission ? " he asked .
" the holy four , " answered ferrier .
his mormon experiences had taught him that that was the highest authority to which he could refer .
" nine from seven , " cried the sentinel .
" seven from five , " returned jefferson hope promptly , remembering the countersign which he had heard in the garden .
" pass , and the lord go with you , " said the voice from above .
beyond his post the path broadened out , and the horses were able to break into a trot . looking back , they could see the solitary watcher leaning upon his gun , and knew that they had passed the outlying post of the chosen people , and that freedom lay before them .
chapter v. the avenging angels .
all night their course lay through intricate defiles and over irregular and rock-strewn paths . more than once they lost their way , but hope 's intimate knowledge of the mountains enabled them to regain the track once more .
when morning broke , a scene of marvellous though savage beauty lay before them .
in every direction the great snow-capped peaks hemmed them in , peeping over each other 's shoulders to the far horizon .
so steep were the rocky banks on either side of them , that the larch and the pine seemed to be suspended over their heads , and to need only a gust of wind to come hurtling down upon them .
nor was the fear entirely an illusion , for the barren valley was thickly strewn with trees and boulders which had fallen in a similar manner .
even as they passed , a great rock came thundering down with a hoarse rattle which woke the echoes in the silent gorges , and startled the weary horses into a gallop .
as the sun rose slowly above the eastern horizon , the caps of the great mountains lit up one after the other , like lamps at a festival , until they were all ruddy and glowing .
the magnificent spectacle cheered the hearts of the three fugitives and gave them fresh energy .
at a wild torrent which swept out of a ravine they called a halt and watered their horses , while they partook of a hasty breakfast .
lucy and her father would fain have rested longer , but jefferson hope was inexorable .
" they will be upon our track by this time , " he said . " everything depends upon our speed .
once safe in carson we may rest for the remainder of our lives . "
during the whole of that day they struggled on through the defiles , and by evening they calculated that they were more than thirty miles from their enemies .
at night-time they chose the base of a beetling crag , where the rocks offered some protection from the chill wind , and there huddled together for warmth , they enjoyed a few hours ' sleep .
before daybreak , however , they were up and on their way once more .
they had seen no signs of any pursuers , and jefferson hope began to think that they were fairly out of the reach of the terrible organization whose enmity they had incurred .
he little knew how far that iron grasp could reach , or how soon it was to close upon them and crush them .
about the middle of the second day of their flight their scanty store of provisions began to run out . this gave the hunter little uneasiness , however , for there was game to be had among the mountains , and he had frequently before had to depend upon his rifle for the needs of life .
choosing a sheltered nook , he piled together a few dried branches and made a blazing fire , at which his companions might warm themselves , for they were now nearly five thousand feet above the sea level , and the air was bitter and keen .
having tethered the horses , and bade lucy adieu , he threw his gun over his shoulder , and set out in search of whatever chance might throw in his way .
looking back he saw the old man and the young girl crouching over the blazing fire , while the three animals stood motionless in the back-ground .
then the intervening rocks hid them from his view .
he walked for a couple of miles through one ravine after another without success , though from the marks upon the bark of the trees , and other indications , he judged that there were numerous bears in the vicinity .
at last , after two or three hours ' fruitless search , he was thinking of turning back in despair , when casting his eyes upwards he saw a sight which sent a thrill of pleasure through his heart .
on the edge of a jutting pinnacle , three or four hundred feet above him , there stood a creature somewhat resembling a sheep in appearance , but armed with a pair of gigantic horns .
the big-horn - for so it is called - was acting , probably , as a guardian over a flock which were invisible to the hunter ; but fortunately it was heading in the opposite direction , and had not perceived him .
lying on his face , he rested his rifle upon a rock , and took a long and steady aim before drawing the trigger .
the animal sprang into the air , tottered for a moment upon the edge of the precipice , and then came crashing down into the valley beneath .
the creature was too unwieldy to lift , so the hunter contented himself with cutting away one haunch and part of the flank .
with this trophy over his shoulder , he hastened to retrace his steps , for the evening was already drawing in .
he had hardly started , however , before he realized the difficulty which faced him .
in his eagerness he had wandered far past the ravines which were known to him , and it was no easy matter to pick out the path which he had taken .
the valley in which he found himself divided and sub-divided into many gorges , which were so like each other that it was impossible to distinguish one from the other .
he followed one for a mile or more until he came to a mountain torrent which he was sure that he had never seen before . convinced that he had taken the wrong turn , he tried another , but with the same result .
night was coming on rapidly , and it was almost dark before he at last found himself in a defile which was familiar to him .
even then it was no easy matter to keep to the right track , for the moon had not yet risen , and the high cliffs on either side made the obscurity more profound .
weighed down with his burden , and weary from his exertions , he stumbled along , keeping up his heart by the reflection that every step brought him nearer to lucy , and that he carried with him enough to ensure them food for the remainder of their journey .
he had now come to the mouth of the very defile in which he had left them . even in the darkness he could recognize the outline of the cliffs which bounded it .
they must , he reflected , be awaiting him anxiously , for he had been absent nearly five hours . in the gladness of his heart he put his hands to his mouth and made the glen re-echo to a loud halloo as a signal that he was coming .
he paused and listened for an answer .
none came save his own cry , which clattered up the dreary silent ravines , and was borne back to his ears in countless repetitions .
again he shouted , even louder than before , and again no whisper came back from the friends whom he had left such a short time ago .
a vague , nameless dread came over him , and he hurried onwards frantically , dropping the precious food in his agitation .
when he turned the corner , he came full in sight of the spot where the fire had been lit .
there was still a glowing pile of wood ashes there , but it had evidently not been tended since his departure .
the same dead silence still reigned all round .
with his fears all changed to convictions , he hurried on . there was no living creature near the remains of the fire : animals , man , maiden , all were gone .
it was only too clear that some sudden and terrible disaster had occurred during his absence - a disaster which had embraced them all , and yet had left no traces behind it .
bewildered and stunned by this blow , jefferson hope felt his head spin round , and had to lean upon his rifle to save himself from falling . he was essentially a man of action , however , and speedily recovered from his temporary impotence .
seizing a half-consumed piece of wood from the smouldering fire , he blew it into a flame , and proceeded with its help to examine the little camp .
the ground was all stamped down by the feet of horses , showing that a large party of mounted men had overtaken the fugitives , and the direction of their tracks proved that they had afterwards turned back to salt lake city .
had they carried back both of his companions with them ?
jefferson hope had almost persuaded himself that they must have done so , when his eye fell upon an object which made every nerve of his body tingle within him . a little way on one side of the camp was a low-lying heap of reddish soil , which had assuredly not been there before .
there was no mistaking it for anything but a newly-dug grave .
as the young hunter approached it , he perceived that a stick had been planted on it , with a sheet of paper stuck in the cleft fork of it . the inscription upon the paper was brief , but to the point :
john ferrier ,
formerly of salt lake city ,
died august 4th , 1860 .
the sturdy old man , whom he had left so short a time before , was gone , then , and this was all his epitaph .
jefferson hope looked wildly round to see if there was a second grave , but there was no sign of one .
lucy had been carried back by their terrible pursuers to fulfil her original destiny , by becoming one of the harem of the elder 's son .
as the young fellow realized the certainty of her fate , and his own powerlessness to prevent it , he wished that he , too , was lying with the old farmer in his last silent resting-place .
again , however , his active spirit shook off the lethargy which springs from despair .
if there was nothing else left to him , he could at least devote his life to revenge .
with indomitable patience and perseverance , jefferson hope possessed also a power of sustained vindictiveness , which he may have learned from the indians amongst whom he had lived .
as he stood by the desolate fire , he felt that the only one thing which could assuage his grief would be thorough and complete retribution , brought by his own hand upon his enemies .
his strong will and untiring energy should , he determined , be devoted to that one end .
with a grim , white face , he retraced his steps to where he had dropped the food , and having stirred up the smouldering fire , he cooked enough to last him for a few days .
this he made up into a bundle , and , tired as he was , he set himself to walk back through the mountains upon the track of the avenging angels .
for five days he toiled footsore and weary through the defiles which he had already traversed on horseback .
at night he flung himself down among the rocks , and snatched a few hours of sleep ; but before daybreak he was always well on his way .
on the sixth day , he reached the eagle canon , from which they had commenced their ill-fated flight . thence he could look down upon the home of the saints .
worn and exhausted , he leaned upon his rifle and shook his gaunt hand fiercely at the silent widespread city beneath him .
as he looked at it , he observed that there were flags in some of the principal streets , and other signs of festivity .
he was still speculating as to what this might mean when he heard the clatter of horse 's hoofs , and saw a mounted man riding towards him .
as he approached , he recognized him as a mormon named cowper , to whom he had rendered services at different times . he therefore accosted him when he got up to him , with the object of finding out what lucy ferrier 's fate had been .
" i am jefferson hope , " he said .
" you remember me . "
the mormon looked at him with undisguised astonishment - indeed , it was difficult to recognize in this tattered , unkempt wanderer , with ghastly white face and fierce , wild eyes , the spruce young hunter of former days .
having , however , at last , satisfied himself as to his identity , the man 's surprise changed to consternation .
" you are mad to come here , " he cried .
" it is as much as my own life is worth to be seen talking with you . there is a warrant against you from the holy four for assisting the ferriers away . "
" i don 't fear them , or their warrant , " hope said , earnestly .
" you must know something of this matter , cowper . i conjure you by everything you hold dear to answer a few questions .
we have always been friends .
for god 's sake , don 't refuse to answer me . "
" what is it ? " the mormon asked uneasily .
" be quick . the very rocks have ears and the trees eyes . "
" what has become of lucy ferrier ? "
" she was married yesterday to young drebber .
hold up , man , hold up , you have no life left in you . "
" don 't mind me , " said hope faintly .
he was white to the very lips , and had sunk down on the stone against which he had been leaning .
" married , you say ? "
" married yesterday - that 's what those flags are for on the endowment house .
there was some words between young drebber and young stangerson as to which was to have her .
they 'd both been in the party that followed them , and stangerson had shot her father , which seemed to give him the best claim ; but when they argued it out in council , drebber 's party was the stronger , so the prophet gave her over to him .
no one won 't have her very long though , for i saw death in her face yesterday .
she is more like a ghost than a woman . are you off , then ? "
" yes , i am off , " said jefferson hope , who had risen from his seat .
his face might have been chiselled out of marble , so hard and set was its expression , while its eyes glowed with a baleful light .
" where are you going ? "
" never mind , " he answered ; and , slinging his weapon over his shoulder , strode off down the gorge and so away into the heart of the mountains to the haunts of the wild beasts . amongst them all there was none so fierce and so dangerous as himself .
the prediction of the mormon was only too well fulfilled .
whether it was the terrible death of her father or the effects of the hateful marriage into which she had been forced , poor lucy never held up her head again , but pined away and died within a month .
her sottish husband , who had married her principally for the sake of john ferrier 's property , did not affect any great grief at his bereavement ; but his other wives mourned over her , and sat up with her the night before the burial , as is the mormon custom .
they were grouped round the bier in the early hours of the morning , when , to their inexpressible fear and astonishment , the door was flung open , and a savage-looking , weather-beaten man in tattered garments strode into the room .
without a glance or a word to the cowering women , he walked up to the white silent figure which had once contained the pure soul of lucy ferrier .
stooping over her , he pressed his lips reverently to her cold forehead , and then , snatching up her hand , he took the wedding-ring from her finger .
" she shall not be buried in that , " he cried with a fierce snarl , and before an alarm could be raised sprang down the stairs and was gone .
so strange and so brief was the episode , that the watchers might have found it hard to believe it themselves or persuade other people of it , had it not been for the undeniable fact that the circlet of gold which marked her as having been a bride had disappeared .
for some months jefferson hope lingered among the mountains , leading a strange wild life , and nursing in his heart the fierce desire for vengeance which possessed him .
tales were told in the city of the weird figure which was seen prowling about the suburbs , and which haunted the lonely mountain gorges .
once a bullet whistled through stangerson 's window and flattened itself upon the wall within a foot of him .
on another occasion , as drebber passed under a cliff a great boulder crashed down on him , and he only escaped a terrible death by throwing himself upon his face .
the two young mormons were not long in discovering the reason of these attempts upon their lives , and led repeated expeditions into the mountains in the hope of capturing or killing their enemy , but always without success .
then they adopted the precaution of never going out alone or after nightfall , and of having their houses guarded .
after a time they were able to relax these measures , for nothing was either heard or seen of their opponent , and they hoped that time had cooled his vindictiveness .
far from doing so , it had , if anything , augmented it . the hunter 's mind was of a hard , unyielding nature , and the predominant idea of revenge had taken such complete possession of it that there was no room for any other emotion .
he was , however , above all things practical .
he soon realized that even his iron constitution could not stand the incessant strain which he was putting upon it .
exposure and want of wholesome food were wearing him out .
if he died like a dog among the mountains , what was to become of his revenge then ?
and yet such a death was sure to overtake him if he persisted .
he felt that that was to play his enemy 's game , so he reluctantly returned to the old nevada mines , there to recruit his health and to amass money enough to allow him to pursue his object without privation .
his intention had been to be absent a year at the most , but a combination of unforeseen circumstances prevented his leaving the mines for nearly five .
at the end of that time , however , his memory of his wrongs and his craving for revenge were quite as keen as on that memorable night when he had stood by john ferrier 's grave .
disguised , and under an assumed name , he returned to salt lake city , careless what became of his own life , as long as he obtained what he knew to be justice .
there he found evil tidings awaiting him .
there had been a schism among the chosen people a few months before , some of the younger members of the church having rebelled against the authority of the elders , and the result had been the secession of a certain number of the malcontents , who had left utah and become gentiles .
among these had been drebber and stangerson ; and no one knew whither they had gone .
rumour reported that drebber had managed to convert a large part of his property into money , and that he had departed a wealthy man , while his companion , stangerson , was comparatively poor .
there was no clue at all , however , as to their whereabouts .
many a man , however vindictive , would have abandoned all thought of revenge in the face of such a difficulty , but jefferson hope never faltered for a moment .
with the small competence he possessed , eked out by such employment as he could pick up , he travelled from town to town through the united states in quest of his enemies .
year passed into year , his black hair turned grizzled , but still he wandered on , a human bloodhound , with his mind wholly set upon the one object upon which he had devoted his life .
at last his perseverance was rewarded .
it was but a glance of a face in a window , but that one glance told him that cleveland in ohio possessed the men whom he was in pursuit of .
he returned to his miserable lodgings with his plan of vengeance all arranged .
it chanced , however , that drebber , looking from his window , had recognized the vagrant in the street , and had read murder in his eyes .
he hurried before a justice of the peace , accompanied by stangerson , who had become his private secretary , and represented to him that they were in danger of their lives from the jealousy and hatred of an old rival .
that evening jefferson hope was taken into custody , and not being able to find sureties , was detained for some weeks .
when at last he was liberated , it was only to find that drebber 's house was deserted , and that he and his secretary had departed for europe .
again the avenger had been foiled , and again his concentrated hatred urged him to continue the pursuit .
funds were wanting , however , and for some time he had to return to work , saving every dollar for his approaching journey .
at last , having collected enough to keep life in him , he departed for europe , and tracked his enemies from city to city , working his way in any menial capacity , but never overtaking the fugitives . when he reached st .
petersburg they had departed for paris ; and when he followed them there he learned that they had just set off for copenhagen .
at the danish capital he was again a few days late , for they had journeyed on to london , where he at last succeeded in running them to earth .
as to what occurred there , we cannot do better than quote the old hunter 's own account , as duly recorded in dr. watson 's journal , to which we are already under such obligations .
chapter vi . a continuation of the reminiscences of john watson , m.d .
our prisoner 's furious resistance did not apparently indicate any ferocity in his disposition towards ourselves , for on finding himself powerless , he smiled in an affable manner , and expressed his hopes that he had not hurt any of us in the scuffle .
" i guess you 're going to take me to the police-station , " he remarked to sherlock holmes . " my cab 's at the door .
if you 'll loose my legs i 'll walk down to it . i 'm not so light to lift as i used to be . "
gregson and lestrade exchanged glances as if they thought this proposition rather a bold one ; but holmes at once took the prisoner at his word , and loosened the towel which we had bound round his ancles .
he rose and stretched his legs , as though to assure himself that they were free once more .
i remember that i thought to myself , as i eyed him , that i had seldom seen a more powerfully built man ; and his dark sunburned face bore an expression of determination and energy which was as formidable as his personal strength .
" if there 's a vacant place for a chief of the police , i reckon you are the man for it , " he said , gazing with undisguised admiration at my fellow-lodger .
" the way you kept on my trail was a caution . "
" you had better come with me , " said holmes to the two detectives .
" i can drive you , " said lestrade .
" good ! and gregson can come inside with me . you too , doctor , you have taken an interest in the case and may as well stick to us . "
i assented gladly , and we all descended together .
our prisoner made no attempt at escape , but stepped calmly into the cab which had been his , and we followed him .
lestrade mounted the box , whipped up the horse , and brought us in a very short time to our destination .
we were ushered into a small chamber where a police inspector noted down our prisoner 's name and the names of the men with whose murder he had been charged .
the official was a white-faced unemotional man , who went through his duties in a dull mechanical way .
" the prisoner will be put before the magistrates in the course of the week , " he said ; " in the mean time , mr. jefferson hope , have you anything that you wish to say ?
i must warn you that your words will be taken down , and may be used against you . "
" i 've got a good deal to say , " our prisoner said slowly .
" i want to tell you gentlemen all about it . "
" hadn 't you better reserve that for your trial ? " asked the inspector .
" i may never be tried , " he answered .
" you needn 't look startled .
it isn 't suicide i am thinking of .
are you a doctor ? " he turned his fierce dark eyes upon me as he asked this last question .
" yes ; i am , " i answered .
" then put your hand here , " he said , with a smile , motioning with his manacled wrists towards his chest .
i did so ; and became at once conscious of an extraordinary throbbing and commotion which was going on inside .
the walls of his chest seemed to thrill and quiver as a frail building would do inside when some powerful engine was at work .
in the silence of the room i could hear a dull humming and buzzing noise which proceeded from the same source .
" why , " i cried , " you have an aortic aneurism ! "
" that 's what they call it , " he said , placidly .
" i went to a doctor last week about it , and he told me that it is bound to burst before many days passed .
it has been getting worse for years .
i got it from over-exposure and under-feeding among the salt lake mountains .
i 've done my work now , and i don 't care how soon i go , but i should like to leave some account of the business behind me . i don 't want to be remembered as a common cut-throat . "
the inspector and the two detectives had a hurried discussion as to the advisability of allowing him to tell his story .
" do you consider , doctor , that there is immediate danger ? " the former asked ,
" most certainly there is , " i answered .
" in that case it is clearly our duty , in the interests of justice , to take his statement , " said the inspector .
" you are at liberty , sir , to give your account , which i again warn you will be taken down . "
" i 'll sit down , with your leave , " the prisoner said , suiting the action to the word .
" this aneurism of mine makes me easily tired , and the tussle we had half an hour ago has not mended matters .
i 'm on the brink of the grave , and i am not likely to lie to you .
every word i say is the absolute truth , and how you use it is a matter of no consequence to me . "
with these words , jefferson hope leaned back in his chair and began the following remarkable statement . he spoke in a calm and methodical manner , as though the events which he narrated were commonplace enough .
i can vouch for the accuracy of the subjoined account , for i have had access to lestrade 's note-book , in which the prisoner 's words were taken down exactly as they were uttered .
" it don 't much matter to you why i hated these men , " he said ; " it 's enough that they were guilty of the death of two human beings - a father and a daughter - and that they had , therefore , forfeited their own lives .
after the lapse of time that has passed since their crime , it was impossible for me to secure a conviction against them in any court . i knew of their guilt though , and i determined that i should be judge , jury , and executioner all rolled into one .
you 'd have done the same , if you have any manhood in you , if you had been in my place .
" that girl that i spoke of was to have married me twenty years ago .
she was forced into marrying that same drebber , and broke her heart over it .
i took the marriage ring from her dead finger , and i vowed that his dying eyes should rest upon that very ring , and that his last thoughts should be of the crime for which he was punished .
i have carried it about with me , and have followed him and his accomplice over two continents until i caught them .
they thought to tire me out , but they could not do it .
if i die to-morrow , as is likely enough , i die knowing that my work in this world is done , and well done .
they have perished , and by my hand .
there is nothing left for me to hope for , or to desire .
" they were rich and i was poor , so that it was no easy matter for me to follow them .
when i got to london my pocket was about empty , and i found that i must turn my hand to something for my living .
driving and riding are as natural to me as walking , so i applied at a cabowner 's office , and soon got employment .
i was to bring a certain sum a week to the owner , and whatever was over that i might keep for myself .
there was seldom much over , but i managed to scrape along somehow .
the hardest job was to learn my way about , for i reckon that of all the mazes that ever were contrived , this city is the most confusing .
i had a map beside me though , and when once i had spotted the principal hotels and stations , i got on pretty well .
" it was some time before i found out where my two gentlemen were living ; but i inquired and inquired until at last i dropped across them . they were at a boarding-house at camberwell , over on the other side of the river .
when once i found them out i knew that i had them at my mercy .
i had grown my beard , and there was no chance of their recognizing me . i would dog them and follow them until i saw my opportunity .
i was determined that they should not escape me again .
" they were very near doing it for all that .
go where they would about london , i was always at their heels . sometimes i followed them on my cab , and sometimes on foot , but the former was the best , for then they could not get away from me .
it was only early in the morning or late at night that i could earn anything , so that i began to get behind hand with my employer .
i did not mind that , however , as long as i could lay my hand upon the men i wanted .
" they were very cunning , though .
they must have thought that there was some chance of their being followed , for they would never go out alone , and never after nightfall .
during two weeks i drove behind them every day , and never once saw them separate .
drebber himself was drunk half the time , but stangerson was not to be caught napping .
i watched them late and early , but never saw the ghost of a chance ; but i was not discouraged , for something told me that the hour had almost come .
my only fear was that this thing in my chest might burst a little too soon and leave my work undone .
" at last , one evening i was driving up and down torquay terrace , as the street was called in which they boarded , when i saw a cab drive up to their door .
presently some luggage was brought out , and after a time drebber and stangerson followed it , and drove off .
i whipped up my horse and kept within sight of them , feeling very ill at ease , for i feared that they were going to shift their quarters .
at euston station they got out , and i left a boy to hold my horse , and followed them on to the platform .
i heard them ask for the liverpool train , and the guard answer that one had just gone and there would not be another for some hours .
stangerson seemed to be put out at that , but drebber was rather pleased than otherwise .
i got so close to them in the bustle that i could hear every word that passed between them .
drebber said that he had a little business of his own to do , and that if the other would wait for him he would soon rejoin him .
his companion remonstrated with him , and reminded him that they had resolved to stick together .
drebber answered that the matter was a delicate one , and that he must go alone . i could not catch what stangerson said to that , but the other burst out swearing , and reminded him that he was nothing more than his paid servant , and that he must not presume to dictate to him .
on that the secretary gave it up as a bad job , and simply bargained with him that if he missed the last train he should rejoin him at halliday 's private hotel ; to which drebber answered that he would be back on the platform before eleven , and made his way out of the station .
" the moment for which i had waited so long had at last come .
i had my enemies within my power .
together they could protect each other , but singly they were at my mercy .
i did not act , however , with undue precipitation .
my plans were already formed . there is no satisfaction in vengeance unless the offender has time to realize who it is that strikes him , and why retribution has come upon him .
i had my plans arranged by which i should have the opportunity of making the man who had wronged me understand that his old sin had found him out .
it chanced that some days before a gentleman who had been engaged in looking over some houses in the brixton road had dropped the key of one of them in my carriage .
it was claimed that same evening , and returned ; but in the interval i had taken a moulding of it , and had a duplicate constructed .
by means of this i had access to at least one spot in this great city where i could rely upon being free from interruption .
how to get drebber to that house was the difficult problem which i had now to solve .
" he walked down the road and went into one or two liquor shops , staying for nearly half-an-hour in the last of them .
when he came out he staggered in his walk , and was evidently pretty well on .
there was a hansom just in front of me , and he hailed it .
i followed it so close that the nose of my horse was within a yard of his driver the whole way .
we rattled across waterloo bridge and through miles of streets , until , to my astonishment , we found ourselves back in the terrace in which he had boarded .
i could not imagine what his intention was in returning there ; but i went on and pulled up my cab a hundred yards or so from the house .
he entered it , and his hansom drove away .
give me a glass of water , if you please . my mouth gets dry with the talking . "
i handed him the glass , and he drank it down .
" that 's better , " he said .
" well , i waited for a quarter of an hour , or more , when suddenly there came a noise like people struggling inside the house .
next moment the door was flung open and two men appeared , one of whom was drebber , and the other was a young chap whom i had never seen before .
this fellow had drebber by the collar , and when they came to the head of the steps he gave him a shove and a kick which sent him half across the road .
'you hound , ' he cried , shaking his stick at him ; ' i 'll teach you to insult an honest girl ! '
he was so hot that i think he would have thrashed drebber with his cudgel , only that the cur staggered away down the road as fast as his legs would carry him .
he ran as far as the corner , and then , seeing my cab , he hailed me and jumped in . ' drive me to halliday 's private hotel , ' said he .
" when i had him fairly inside my cab , my heart jumped so with joy that i feared lest at this last moment my aneurism might go wrong .
i drove along slowly , weighing in my own mind what it was best to do .
i might take him right out into the country , and there in some deserted lane have my last interview with him . i had almost decided upon this , when he solved the problem for me .
the craze for drink had seized him again , and he ordered me to pull up outside a gin palace . he went in , leaving word that i should wait for him .
there he remained until closing time , and when he came out he was so far gone that i knew the game was in my own hands .
" don 't imagine that i intended to kill him in cold blood . it would only have been rigid justice if i had done so , but i could not bring myself to do it .
i had long determined that he should have a show for his life if he chose to take advantage of it .
among the many billets which i have filled in america during my wandering life , i was once janitor and sweeper out of the laboratory at york college .
one day the professor was lecturing on poisions , and he showed his students some alkaloid , as he called it , which he had extracted from some south american arrow poison , and which was so powerful that the least grain meant instant death .
i spotted the bottle in which this preparation was kept , and when they were all gone , i helped myself to a little of it .
i was a fairly good dispenser , so i worked this alkaloid into small , soluble pills , and each pill i put in a box with a similar pill made without the poison .
i determined at the time that when i had my chance , my gentlemen should each have a draw out of one of these boxes , while i ate the pill that remained .
it would be quite as deadly , and a good deal less noisy than firing across a handkerchief .
from that day i had always my pill boxes about with me , and the time had now come when i was to use them .
" it was nearer one than twelve , and a wild , bleak night , blowing hard and raining in torrents . dismal as it was outside , i was glad within - so glad that i could have shouted out from pure exultation .
if any of you gentlemen have ever pined for a thing , and longed for it during twenty long years , and then suddenly found it within your reach , you would understand my feelings .
i lit a cigar , and puffed at it to steady my nerves , but my hands were trembling , and my temples throbbing with excitement .
as i drove , i could see old john ferrier and sweet lucy looking at me out of the darkness and smiling at me , just as plain as i see you all in this room . all the way they were ahead of me , one on each side of the horse until i pulled up at the house in the brixton road .
" there was not a soul to be seen , nor a sound to be heard , except the dripping of the rain .
when i looked in at the window , i found drebber all huddled together in a drunken sleep .
i shook him by the arm , ' it 's time to get out , ' i said .
" ' all right , cabby , ' said he .
" i suppose he thought we had come to the hotel that he had mentioned , for he got out without another word , and followed me down the garden .
i had to walk beside him to keep him steady , for he was still a little top-heavy .
when we came to the door , i opened it , and led him into the front room .
i give you my word that all the way , the father and the daughter were walking in front of us .
" ' it 's infernally dark , ' said he , stamping about .
" ' we 'll soon have a light , ' i said , striking a match and putting it to a wax candle which i had brought with me .
'now , enoch drebber , ' i continued , turning to him , and holding the light to my own face , ' who am i ? '
" he gazed at me with bleared , drunken eyes for a moment , and then i saw a horror spring up in them , and convulse his whole features , which showed me that he knew me . he staggered back with a livid face , and i saw the perspiration break out upon his brow , while his teeth chattered in his head .
at the sight , i leaned my back against the door and laughed loud and long .
i had always known that vengeance would be sweet , but i had never hoped for the contentment of soul which now possessed me .
" ' you dog ! ' i said ; ' i have hunted you from salt lake city to st .
petersburg , and you have always escaped me . now , at last your wanderings have come to an end , for either you or i shall never see to-morrow 's sun rise . '
he shrunk still further away as i spoke , and i could see on his face that he thought i was mad .
so i was for the time .
the pulses in my temples beat like sledge-hammers , and i believe i would have had a fit of some sort if the blood had not gushed from my nose and relieved me .
i cried , locking the door , and shaking the key in his face . ' punishment has been slow in coming , but it has overtaken you at last . '
i saw his coward lips tremble as i spoke . he would have begged for his life , but he knew well that it was useless .
" ' would you murder me ? ' he stammered .
" ' there is no murder , ' i answered .
'who talks of murdering a mad dog ?
what mercy had you upon my poor darling , when you dragged her from her slaughtered father , and bore her away to your accursed and shameless harem . '
" ' it was not i who killed her father , ' he cried .
" ' but it was you who broke her innocent heart , ' i shrieked , thrusting the box before him .
'let the high god judge between us . choose and eat .
there is death in one and life in the other . i shall take what you leave .
let us see if there is justice upon the earth , or if we are ruled by chance . '
" he cowered away with wild cries and prayers for mercy , but i drew my knife and held it to his throat until he had obeyed me .
then i swallowed the other , and we stood facing one another in silence for a minute or more , waiting to see which was to live and which was to die .
shall i ever forget the look which came over his face when the first warning pangs told him that the poison was in his system ?
i laughed as i saw it , and held lucy 's marriage ring in front of his eyes .
it was but for a moment , for the action of the alkaloid is rapid .
a spasm of pain contorted his features ; he threw his hands out in front of him , staggered , and then , with a hoarse cry , fell heavily upon the floor .
i turned him over with my foot , and placed my hand upon his heart . there was no movement .
" the blood had been streaming from my nose , but i had taken no notice of it .
i don 't know what it was that put it into my head to write upon the wall with it .
perhaps it was some mischievous idea of setting the police upon a wrong track , for i felt light-hearted and cheerful .
i remembered a german being found in new york with rache written up above him , and it was argued at the time in the newspapers that the secret societies must have done it .
i guessed that what puzzled the new yorkers would puzzle the londoners , so i dipped my finger in my own blood and printed it on a convenient place on the wall .
then i walked down to my cab and found that there was nobody about , and that the night was still very wild .
i had driven some distance when i put my hand into the pocket in which i usually kept lucy 's ring , and found that it was not there .
i was thunderstruck at this , for it was the only memento that i had of her .
thinking that i might have dropped it when i stooped over drebber 's body , i drove back , and leaving my cab in a side street , i went boldly up to the house - for i was ready to dare anything rather than lose the ring .
