excuse me , director heo ..
it has been only for a short while since you were scouted to our empire after staying in the u.s. for years .
so i guess you don 't know well , so that 's why i 'm telling you this .
kim jin woo really hates anthony .
why ?
back in the day , anthony stole kim jin woo 's woman .
so what ?
what does that have to do with us ?
of course it has something to do , with our representative . among top actors , kim jin woo and kang hyun min who can be used for november , the one anthony can select is only kang hyun min .
this fight can be defined as the total war between anthony , who will put his life on the line to have kang hyun min for the casting , and our representative oh .
currently , kang hyun min is considering " getting married to my man , " and ...
by the writer gong ji young ?
representative , kang hyun min is doing a fan meeting at the diamond hall of ace hotel .
it ends at 5 o 'clock .
prepare a clean copy of the script . i 'm taking off .
yes .
what are you doing ?
i 'm making myself engrave him in my mind . that way he can be alive in the script .
so have you engraved him well ?
the more i think about it , the more i like it .
he looks intelligent , with an air of melancholy about him .
once you see him in person , you 'll find out in less than a minute how intelligent and melancholic he is .
what ...
you raise me up , so i can stand on mountains .
you raise me up to walk on stormy seas .
i am strong when i am on your shoulders
you raise me up to more than i can be
you raise me up to more than i can be
long time no see !
yes , hello .
you should be holding fanmeetings in japan and china besides this crowded seoul .
so i should .
i have a good drama in the makings , you should work with me .
you 're still making dramas these days ?
i got an investment of 10 billion won from japan .
good for you .
i 'll get the november broadcasting slot at s broadcasting .
i did hear that tae joon has been seriously injured .
i guess he couldn 't get up this time .
i 'll cut to the chase . this is my offer .
the best rate in the nation , 100 million won per episode .
100 million ?
20 episodes , so 2 billion . once you sign the contract , you 'll be paid the total amount within 15 days .
yes ?
the total amount ?
i guarantee you the quality of the drama .
moreover , as it 's being funded by a japanese source , we can even try for a national broadcast in japan .
then ...
it 's the birth of a new hallyu star .
you 'll be rolling in dough . to tell it like it is ,
i know that you need big money for the shopping mall business that you started beyond your means .
if you just sign the document you get 2 billion .
what about the script ?
have a good look at it and meet me at the restaurant at the cheongdam intersection .
i 'll do that .
read it fast , but pay attention .
it 's a voucher worth 2 billion .
you 're really cool , representative .
but do you think kang hyun min will come there ?
there is one thing people know about kang hyun min and one thing they don 't .
although they know that kang hyun min is a star , they don 't know that he 's the world 's biggest idiot who only knows money .
he will come without question .
i 'm going !
i , kang hyun min , am getting 2 billion and going to the world !
go to hollywood , let 's go partytime .
kwang soo , turn it up !
empire 's representative oh jin wan hey turn it off !
yes , representative oh .
hello !
i 've heard that you were being bothered by some pathetic scripts lately .
i 'm calling to disperse your worries a bit .
we 're planning to do jeong hong ju 's project , how about it ?
if it 's writer jeong hong ju ...
elegant revenge 2 ?
wasn 't shin yang hyung going to do that ?
it 's empire 's best drama , of course we have to go with korea 's best actor .
oh my god .
aren 't you just asking me because shin yang refused it ?
what are you talking about ?
to me , the best actor in korea is always kang hyun min , no question about it .
please send the script , then .
in any case , it 's writer jeong hong ju who can turn everything to gold .
that guarantees the quality of the work .
what month is the broadcast ?
november . at s broadcasting .
november at s broadcasting ?
why ?
no , it 's nothing .
ah , right .
you know the guy called anthony , don 't you ?
by anthony you mean ... ah , the person who was at empire in the past .
it looks like he 's trying to start again with a japanese investment of 10 billion .
didn 't he come look for you ?
no , he didn 't .
ah ...
i heard there 's a problem with the japanese contract .
at any rate , i 'll send the contract to your agency .
give me a call when you make up your mind .
i understand , have a good day .
yes !
dang , now i 'm confused .
hey , hurry up and turn around .
huh ?
hyung , what about the charity event for senior citizens ?
listen , it 's a matter of billions of money .
i can care less about those senior citizens !
just turn around , now !
man , i 'm so confused .
anthony ...
i see that he got to talk to kang hyun min before i did ...
what do you think ?
what did you think , hyung ? darling , if i had the brains to tell whether a script is good or not , would i ask you ?
i really like it .
i 've never seen any drama like this before .
it 's refreshing .
is it .. ?
but hyung , shouldn 't you be talking to the representative ?
don 't worry , i can talk to him after making up my mind .
telling them too soon will only cause headaches .
then , hyung , what are you going to do ?
this one or the empire 's ?
well ... honestly ...
i like this , but ... but i 'm not sure if anthony really got funding from a japanese source or if he 's bluffing ...
hyung , if it 's not certain isn 't it better to go with empire ?
empire .
empire .
empire .
gosh , this gives me a headache .
kang hyun min 's manager just called .
his highschool teacher died , so he had to go to the funeral .
so he can 't come here today .
it 's oh jin wan .
pardon ?
the empire has targeted kang hyun min and played some tricks .
seonbaenim .
it 's me .
i see that you talked to hyun min already .
what the ...
why are you so obsessed with kang hyun min ?
why do you think i 'm doing this ?
do you think i really like that idiot who can 't even write his own name in chinese ?
his voice is pathetic , he thinks acting is all about posing , he 's such a stuck-up who 's crazy about money .
why would i be obsessed with him ?
i 'm just ... using him to destroy you , seonbaenim .
is this ... a challenge ?
the one sitting on the throne of the empire is me .
and as long as i 'm empire 's representative , you definitely won 't be able to make a comeback .
representative , it 's a bad news !
kang hyun min , confirmed casting for elegant revenge 2
seeing that they 've already published news articles about casting kang hyun min for elegant revenge 2 , i guess the empire has already taken action .
find out where kang min hyung is .
right now .
yes .
i 'm going to kang hyun min 's house .
what are you doing ?
aren 't you going to see that intelligent actor with an air of melancholy ?
me too ?
since we don 't have a director yet , we should at least introduce the rookie writer to him .
should i go ?
where on earth do you think he went ?
that 's what i want to ask now .
yes ?
we found him , director .
today is an actor kim jin woo 's birthday and everyone is inside a vip room drinking alcohol .
thank you , thank you !
congratulations .
thanks .
hey . you 're really made the right choice . i just came back from china after filming some drama there , but anthony , that son of b * * ch , is acting up to come back , i guess .
he can 't come back . he 's a jerk you should never work with .
why do you not like that guy ?
you don 't have to know that far .
it 's not just one or two people who hate anthony in this field .
oh , that 's right . thinking of that , the girl you dated with a few years ago , anthony took her away from you , right ?
who did that ?
got it ? okay !
cheers .
it 's been a long time .
wow , indeed , i can 't win over you , representative kim .
want a drink ?
we should do introductions .
this is writer lee go eun , the writer of " morning of kyeong seong . "
hello .
director , you really ...
this there a reason for me to meet this person ?
how much do you want ?
did you not see the article ?
i will give you more ( money ) than empire . how much do you want ?
representative , i 've decided to work for " elegant revenge 2 . "
okay , fine .
you can trust empire production .
but , you 'd better not trust oh jin wan of empire production .
what on earth is the reason that you 're so obsessed for kang hyun min ?
why would i be ?
do you think i 'm doing this because i like that guy who is too ignorant to write his own name in chinese characters ?
he has terrible vocal , and thinks his acting is the best .
that rude jerk who is crazy about only money , why would i obsess about him ?
i 'm just ... using him to destroy you , sunbaenim .
hey , you guys , leave us alone .
i 'm going crazy ... representative oh , that son of b * * ch !
geez , how embarrassing !
are you insane ?
did you have to turn it on in front of those guys ?
are you going to do it or not ?
i 'll do it .
but will just ask you something .
why are you two like that to each other ?
i will tell you truthfully .
this is the war between me and oh jin wan of empire production .
and you 're now on board of my ship .
the war . it 's already started . during the first shooting of " top secrets , " the drama which was planned to be aired in november , because of some accident of choi tae joon , the main actor , he was recommended to have 8 weeks of rest and he 's now getting treated at the hospital .
production team for this drama decided that no more shooting is possible .
so the drama " top secrets " is canceled . as for its replacement drama , we 're looking into all possible options with open-mind , but so far , there is nothing decided yet .
director ! there is a rumor that " elegant revenge 2 " will replace that , but is it true ?
please tell us more !
is it true that writer jeong hong joo 's drama will be aired ?
then , what is the best among those options ?
director , it 's of course " elegant revenge 2 " of empire production .
it seems that kang hyun min is in the casting . well , it 's not like he has signed a contract , and there is only its title , not even the synopsis , so how can we say if it 's good or bad ?
cp na , how could say that ?
if writer jeong hong joo heard that , she would 've been upset .
what na moon young said isn 't totally wrong .
even if it 's jeong hong joo from empire , we don 't have to beg her first .
then , what 's the best among the dramas with scripts ? well , considering only the drama itself , " morning of kyeong seong " is the best .
kang hyun min is going to work with me for my drama .
yes , reporter park .
i 've met him in this morning and finished all the discussion .
he 's on bad terms with his representative , so he even asked me ( for this role ) .
what do you mean , empire ?
hyun min said he hasn 't even met anyone from empire . [ kang hyun min , didn 't even meet production team for " elegant revenge 2 " ]
will he play in a drama which doesn 't even have a script ? [ will kang hyun min play for elegant revenge 2 ? - no script is made yet . ]
that 's right , he said it was just one of all dramas he was looking into .
[ kang hyun min ' elegant revenge 2 ' cast " no ! " ]
director !
right now kang hyun min-
so you 're trying to do some media play ?
in real time , the refutation news is being uploaded .
what shall we do ?
what shall we do ?
contact the representative of his agency .
aigoo , seriously !
hey !
how could you decide such important matter without me ?
if you discuss with me , will i take more commission from you ?
hyun min , it 's empire , empire !
do you want to fight against representative oh and finish your actor 's life ?
aigo , seriously , you brat .
hyun min ! damn ! i 've lost my face in front of my friends , but if i work with reprentative oh , those guys will think of me a moron !
i will make representative oh apologize to you !
do you want him to apologize in front of all those guys ?
oh , i don 't know !
i don 't know , i don 't know !
director oh aigo , i could barely persuade hyun min .
yes .
please don 't worry .
all those articles which anthony released are now removed .
i 've just received that report .
[ kang hyun min , reconfirmed to act for " elegant revenge 2 " ]
so , who finally got hold of kang hyun min , reprentative oh or anthony ?
well , i can 't figure it out , either .
there are even some articles which disappear if you click them .
but if you go to some other sites , again you can find ... tell both of them to come to my office immediately .
sunbaenim , i think i clearly warned you .
then , i will warn you too .
i got kang hyun min .
haven 't you seen all those articles getting removed weakly ?
i 'll get to the point . whether bringing the contract with kang hyun min to me , or bringing hyun min in front of me , bring me something firm .
director , are you now doubting about me because of anthony 's media play ?
i 'm the representative of empire .
representative oh . even if you 're the representative of empire production , the drama director here is me !
as you want , director , i will bring kang hyun min in front of you . anthony , there is no one who would fall for your words , so just make sure to bring him .
by 11 am tomorrow , before our meeting for broadcasting schedule , bring kang hyun min in front of me .
the person who brings kang hyun min tomorrow will be the owner of november time slot .
the number you called is busy now .
the number you called is busy now .
pd joo , what about kang hyun min ?
representative choi , what about kang hyun min ?
what ?
kang hyun min is under water ? ( implying " hiding without any contact detail " )
even without road manager kwang soo , he 's been out of reach for 8 hours .
out of reach ?
have you searched all possible places ?
are you sure he went under water ?
if kang hyun min went under water , he wouldn 't go where he usually goes .
from now on , anyone who is close to hyun min , whether it 's an actor , or a manager , find those people who are staying home today and visit all those houses .
their homes ?
don 't you know that kang hyun min is a video game addict ?
you 're his road manager , but what did you do , not sticking to hyun min ?
well , i went to the rest room , but when i came back , he was gone ...
i 'm sorry .
where do you think he will possibly go ?
he 's not at jang geun seok 's house .
what about your side ?
he 's not at ji sung 's house , either . as kang hyun min 's cell phone is still turned on , i was going to ask yoon gye sang 's help , thinking he might answer to his call , but gye sang ssi isn 't not answering my call .
i 've already tried that method .
cell phone .... ?
i 've already tried that method .
cell phone .... ?
long time no see , detective lee .
so you want us to track down the location of kang hyun min using his cell phone ?
yes , that bastard 's cell phone is on .
you know , that 's illegal .
i know it 's illegal . that 's why i 'm asking you .
hello professor , this is lee go eun .
i talked to you before about doing some background research for a drama . actually , there is something i 'm not quite clear about , actually , there is something i 'm not quite clear about , so i was wondering if i could meet with you again .
yes , mornings are fine with me .
of course .
then i 'll see you at the school .
thanks .
that kang hyun min bastard , maybe he 's passed out somewhere drunk on purpose to annoy us .
on purpose ?
would he have taken his game console if he did it on purpose ?
how do you know that he took his game console with him ?
well , actually , the thing is ...
just spit it out !
he said he 'd fire me if i talked !
i 'm your employer !
now , talk !
he 's in yangpyeong .
yangpyeong ?
i got it , detective lee .
producer joo , find out who 's the closest to yangpyeong and give me a call .
kang hyun min is in yangpyeong right now .
kang hyun min is still alive and well .
hyun min , let 's go to hollywood .
go to hollywood .
i 'm your father .
what have you found ?
yes , looks like writer lee go eun is the closest .
what ?
lee go eun ?
yes , she texted me this morning that she 's going to the yicheon moonhwa university at 9 .
i 'm so glad that your work is going to be made into a drama .
it 's not confirmed yet , but it will be decided soon .
well then ... i don 't mind ; you may take the call .
i 'm so sorry .
i can 't take your call at this moment .
hey , don 't hang up !
i 'm in the middle of an interview .
our whole fate is in your hands .
kang hyun min is in yangpyeong , and we need him by 11 to do our drama .
you 're the closest , so move right now !
where in yangpyeong is he at ?
house number 350 , yangsoo-ri , yangsoo-myeon , yangpyeong-goon .
he 's either in a pension or a cabin .
get him at whatever cost !
i 'm on my way , too , so just get him !
hey !
do you have a death wish ?
!
hey , what do you think you 're doing ?
you 've got navigation !
take me to yangpyeong , please !
what the heck ?
just get off !
you can charge whatever rate .
it 's a dire emergency !
please !
representative , we 're almost there .
just hurry .
please , hurry up .
hey , aren 't you gonna pay me ?
just wait a sec !
hey , lady !
representative , i 'm here .
yes .
yes .
there is a car in the garage , so he must be inside ...
writer lee ?
what happened ?
what 's wrong ?
answer me , lee go eun ! writer lee ? what happened ?
sweetheart ?
mr. kang hyun min , this is writer lee go eun .
mr. kang hyun min , i 'm from the world production .
you saw me the other day .
i 'm writer lee go eun .
how did she know that i 'm here ?
i know you 're in there .
open the door !
man , i 've seen it already .
i saw what you were doing with that actress . i can spread the news !
i mean it !
just open the door !
who in their right mind would open the door when hiding ?
yee-ha !
stop , stop !
i got you !
hold still !
you want to die ?
i 've got to get dressed !
if you don 't want to die , get up and lift up your hands . you , do you even know what kind of a gun that is ?
are you crazy ?
sure . i 'm completely crazy .
so you should get out of here if you want to live .
i 'd rather die than go out like this . lady , i have a wife and children .
i 'll give you back your money .
i don 't need it .
just spare me !
you just pay attention to the road !
yes , representative .
i 'm on my way with mr. kang hyun min .
where ?
what ?
where ?
writer lee ?
writer lee !
let go ! let go of it !
i can 't die like this !
ah !
hey !
just turn the volume down already !
what an idiot !
writer lee ! lee go eun , what happened ? !
let go !
i said , let go !
i can 't let you go !
threatening with an umbrella isn 't enough ?
let go !
if you don 't come with me , we can 't produce our drama !
what 's that got to do with me ?
do you really think you can make me come with you ?
just listen to me for once , then i 'll let you go .
what ?
i know that only you can make up your mind . that you call the shots .
but just keep this in mind .
i will try my best to show how seroius , how marvelous of an actor you are .
that 's why you 're just a rookie . all the writers write for me , the protagonist , the very kang hyun min .
understand ?
yes , it 's me .
how did it go with kang hyun min ?
we 're bringing him with us .
just wait for a little while .
great ! representative , even if neither of them get kang hyun min , empire productions has far better conditions .
that 's correct .
plus , representative oh is bringing kang hyun min right now .
well then , it 's pretty much decided .
then , the monday-tuesday slot for dramas in november shall go to the empire production 's elegant revenge 2 ...
what are you doing ?
pardon me .
how dare you barge in ? !
get out !
my name is kang hyun min .
i 'll do my best .
it 's not over yet .
i 'll turn the tables when they least expect it .
does living like that make you happy at all ?
in this world , those with power oppress the losers .
the broadcast schedule report is not available ?
bring me the bank statement with proof of funds for the production .
if you can only produce it by covering everything up with money , i don 't want that .
why don 't you step down ?
i mean , i 'm firing you .
leave .
episode 4 theartof war alright , i understand . representative ,
anthony did end up with the broadcasting slot . kang hyun min is with anthony right now . representative oh , i 'm truly sorry .
this is so not like hyun min ... why would he do this ? why would he ... ?
representative choi , do you think that that is a valid excuse ?
don 't ever expect to see me again .
representative , representative !
i didn 't mean ...
representative !
wow , seriously ...
i can 't win with you , representative .
you even sent people all the way there to track me down .
this is incredible !
at any rate , why did you change your mind all of a sudden ?
why did i change my mind ? from now on , i will write only for you , mr. kang hyun min . i will do my best to show in my writing what an earnest , praiseworthy actor you are .
that 's why you 're just a rookie . all the other writers are already doing it . writing for the protagonist , the star , me .
understand ?
by the way , did you mean it ?
what ?
that you will write for me .
that you will try to prove what an awesome actor i am .
do you really mean that ?
of course !
then listen .
if you don 't keep that promise , you 'll be in big trouble .
understand ?
yes .
i think you are mistaken .
my decision has always been the same .
i just went away to study the script .
there was no need for such a fuss .
so we were panicking for nothing .
i 'm a man of my word .
how can a man ever change his word ?
by the way , representative .
about that writer , what kind of a person is she ?
does she stay true to her words ? representative , as we had originally planned , let 's slate elegant revenge 2 for next year ...
it 's not over yet . director heo , go ahead with our preparations .
yes . anthony , just wait for a little bit .
i will turn the tables on you when you least expect it .
have you lost your mind completely ?
hey , kang hyun min ! no matter how good-looking you are , it doesn 't take much to lose your shine in this field .
if you 're going to call all the shots at your whim , do you even need me ?
are you suggesting that you don 't need me any more ?
that 's right .
to be honest , i don 't need you any more . whether i 'm good-looking or not , it 's thanks to me that you 're making money .
tell me , is it not ?
hyun min , what i mean is ... if that 's not what you mean , just shut your mouth .
also , since i procured this contract , i 'm not giving you a single penny for it .
got it ?
gwang soo , let 's go .
yes .
argh , that rascal ... !
hyung , each time i see this team , they just brighten my day .
aigoo , she plays coy ...
no matter how you slice it , when it comes to looks , our bit na is the best .
yes , her looks are the best .
bit na , is something wrong ?
i don 't know , i 'm just pissed .
why , why ?
even at our last concert , they wouldn 't let me say anything to the audience !
who the heck did that ? chief go , saying that if fans hear my voice , they will be completely put off .
that stupid chief go needs to learn a lesson .
what 's wrong with our bit na 's voice ?
it 's unique and sexy !
i don 't know !
bit na , you wanted a new car , right ?
why ?
i 'll buy you one .
a nice one .
are you serious ?
i 've got a big payment coming in .
then i 'll buy you one .
oppa ... i la la , i love you !
i suppose all your experience counts for something , seeing that you managed to bring in kang hyun min when the empire failed to do that .
you know , once i target an actor , i never let go .
i was wondering if you had lost your touch since you weren 't doing so well for 3 years .
so , what about the script ?
working on episode 5 now .
she 's done pretty well so far for someone without any publications or awards .
yes , indeed .
however , that ends here .
let her finish what she 's working on .
then switch to a more seasoned writer .
what ?
needless to say , the production will go live soon enough .
you can 't do that with a newbie like that .
i heard that all she 's got is some experience as an assistant to writer jeong . is that right ?
yes , that is correct , but ...
just get a different writer .
i 'm telling you this as the director of the broadcasting station .
representative , you 're back .
you 're back .
what 's all this ?
oh , representative , you 're back .
why are you in such a good mood ?
my mom is here .
representative , how have you been ? how have you been ? since my go eun wasn 't coming home for nights working on the script ,
i 've come to make sure that you 're feeding her well . oh , mother ( of go eun ) , you should come often .
the food is so good .
hadn 't had a home-cooked meal in a long time .
exactly , mother .
you should have some , too , representative .
i have eaten already .
oh , how fortunate that i packed some extra .
keep it in the fridge so that representative can have it later .
alright .
is my daughter doing alright ?
yes .
i trust you to take good care of her .
i shall excuse myself now .
have a safe trip back .
mom , you 're leaving already ?
yes , it 's already late for me to get ready for the evening rush .
i 'll see my mom to the bus station .
writer lee !
yes ?
i need to talk with you , why don 't you say goodbye now ?
yes ?
that 's right .
you just stay here and talk with him . i 'll get a taxi .
- bye , and please come again .
- thanks for the food !
what is it ?
i will cut to the chase .
in addition to the contract fee , i 'll give you a bonus , so 30 million won ( ~ $ 30k in usd ) in total .
yes ?
what does that mean ... ?
i would like you to step down now .
what do you mean by that ?
i 'm firing you .
so leave .
on what grounds ?
if you want to know , i 'll tell you .
i used you to get the investment , and now that i don 't need you , i 'm deserting you .
you asked me if i wanted to spend the rest of my life grilling mackerels .
seemed like your mackerel business is going well , that 's not a bad way of spending the rest of your life .
- you said , dreams exist to be fulfilled , not reminisced .
- i lied to convince you ... you can 't tell me to leave .
it 's my writing !
my baby !
i 'm sorry , but we 've already found a new writer .
what a scum .
yes , maybe not the world 's lowest , but the lowest scum in korea for sure .
so leave . i can 't !
i won 't !
i 'd rather die !
i 'll go to the drama department and tell them all about what a scum you are .
you would better not do that .
you 'll only face the reality of how pathetic you are .
what ?
it was the drama department that asked for a new writer .
hey , you there !
hey ! hey !
we 'll have to see when the first draft ....
what , what is this ?
i am writer lee go eun of " the morning of kyeongseong . "
so what ?
i know that i 'm being rude , but i just had to ask a question .
i just heard from the production company that they 're getting a new writer .
they said that a new writer was requested by the drama department . is that true ?
yes , it is .
i know i 'm a rookie , with no publication or broadcasting experience .
however , didn 't you give us the slot based on my writing ?
please , give me a chance .
do you have any idea where you are ?
director ...
you said it yourself .
that you have no publications or broadcasting experience . as the final person in charge , i 'm telling you as the director of the drama department .
we can 't let a rookie with no publication or broadcasting experience go out to war .
it is better off not to start a war when defeat is evident .
then , i 'm ... in a nutshell , as long as you 're not in the team , this war can be won .
if i 've made myself clear , go now .
if ... if i leave , can you guarantee that this war will be won ?
what ?
you probably can 't .
nobody knows for sure .
you can only excel if given an opportunity .
even if i have to leave the production , i just wanted to say this to you .
what the ... what a brat ... how insolent ...
she may be feisty , but she 's right .
huh , what ?
yes ?
what did you just say ?
no , just rambling . representative , are you asleep ?
speak .
writer lee go eun ... will she be alright ?
she seemed to be in a lot of shock .
forget about it and just sleep .
i 'm trying , but i can 't sleep .
what did i tell you ?
to make a drama ...
one must leave even if it is his own father .
yes , so keep that in mind and sleep .
tomorrow , we 'll get the contract with kang hyun min ready .
yes .
aunty , can you hurry up a bit ?
alright !
what are you doing ?
gwang soo , stop .
you 're here .
i told you to work out , not to show yourself off working out .
they 're all dying to see me though .
all these girls have come here to see this face and this body .
i guess it doesn 't hurt to sign the contract among flowers .
the terms are as we had discussed before . as soon as you sign the contract , you 'll get 2 billion won in 15 days , all in one lump sum .
gwang soo , my stamp .
let 's break a leg !
just deposit the money within the set time .
what do you mean ?
you can 't issue a certificate of broadcasting slot ?
we 've already signed a contract with kang hyun min , and changed the writer . you can 't issue a certificate of broadcasting slot ? we 've already signed a contract with kang hyun min , and changed the writer .
why can 't you issue us a certificate when you 've already given us the slot ?
who says i 'm not issuing you one ?
bring me the bank statement that has the funds for this production .
what ?
not something you just type up on word , but an actual bank book that shows the money .
director ...
you know it , too .
how many drama productions bite off more than they can chew , and end up in a wreck with insufficient funds .
that hurts the reputation of the broadcasting station as well !
once you give me the certificate , i get the investment from japan .
not just a couple billion , but 10 billion !
well then , show me the bank book with that 10 billion .
director ...
a certificate of a broadcasting slot comes with my official seal to represent the broadcasting station .
if you want my seal , show me the money first .
we have to deposit the 2 billion for kang hyun min , too . what now ?
if he doesn 't get that 2 billion , he 'll go with someone else for sure .
then , the whole drama is ..
what if we explained our situation to the japanese sponsor ?
i 've already contacted the person in charge , it 's the same story .
an official document of the broadcasting schedule .
what the s broadcasting director wants is not bank books .
here , take a shot .
- cheers - thanks for your hard work .
i heard that they 're switching the writer for " morning of kyeongseong . "
that lee go eun , who wrote the synopsis , came to the director and made a scene , i heard .
but it 's a new genre we 've not done before .
how much better could an experienced writer be ?
in the end , it is up to the production skills of representative kim of the world production .
and we all know that recently , many production companies start shooting , then run out of money , and end up not paying the actors and the filming crew .
we 've seen so many cases like that .
if you 're giving the slot to representative kim , it would be good to make sure about the funding situation .
i know , i already told anthony about securing the funds .
you have a visitor .
good evening .
hey , representative kim !
what brings you here ?
i came here to get dinner , and i heard that you were here , so i 've come to say hi .
oh , i see . come in , come in .
yes .
i was thinking about what you said earlier today , director .
and i admit that i was in the wrong .
as you had requested , i will bring you a bank book showing the funds and also draw up a budget plan .
of course , that you should .
here , have a drink .
huh ?
what are you doing outside ?
i have a favor to ask , director .
a favor ?
i heard that you play golf in nonhyun-dong lately ... give me the combination of your locker , and i 'll prepare something for you by tomorrow .
representative kim ...
it 's just a token of my appreciation .
please take it .
appreciation for what ?
the certificate of broadcasting slot .
hey , anthony , are you still doing this crap ?
what about you , director ?
what ? last year , on march 24 and september 13 , kj production sent you some token appreciations .
watch your words .
i thought they were just rumors .
that 's right . totally senseless rumors .
got it ?
yes , i 'm sure .
alright .
oh , would you check if my car is parked ok outside ?
it 's black , and the number is 8911 .
yes , i shall , director .
are you still doing things this way ?
what ... do you mean ?
i guess people never change .
since i had a drink , i 'll just say one thing as a man .
representative kim , i ... hate you . ( dropping the honorifics )
i especially hate those dirty , shameless ways of darkness of how you do your business .
yes , those dirty , shameless ways of darkness are exactly how i 've been doing my business , and i 'll continue to do so .
now , think about it .
how much longer do you think you 'll be in the drama department , chief producer nam ?
the way i see it , with all the promotions , 5 years at best ?
do you even have a plan for your retirement ?
that 's why you 're such a low jerk , bastard .
thank you .
i 'm paying for my own drinks .
have you looked into the things i asked you about ?
oh , that ?
i 've found a few after some internal investigation .
just as i told you , right ?
what would you like me to do ?
kill him .
so that he 'll never come near this field ...
ajumma , another bottle of soju .
- here , another bottle .
- thanks .
- aunty , we 'd like another grilled mackerel .
- yes . yes , coming !
hey , what are you doing here ?
because they liked my script so much , i 'm on vacation .
well then , hurry up and grill some mackerels .
can 't you see how busy we are ?
yes , madame kang . ( madame tenacity )
the money ?
it will be withdrawn from the bank in 30 minutes .
ohhyung golf course in nonhyun-dong .
director moon 's locker number and combination .
8911 ?
8911 ... no , put it in your mouth and swallow it .
what ? we can 't leave any trace behind unless they cut our guts open .
get the money and deliver it right away .
i 'll go get the certificate of broadcasting slot .
yes , i got it .
where did they all go with the door open ?
writer lee ...
i just came to get my stuff ...
what is that ? yes ? oh , it 's nothing .
well , you know , miss writer , it is inevitable for the production to start , so ... it just happens this way .
i guess " the morning of kyeongseong " will be the inaugural work of world production .
yes .
break a leg .
thank you .
and the writer ?
still in search for a decent experienced one .
good .
alright , you may leave .
well , have a good day . one of my assistants just stopped by the ohhyung golf course in nonhyun-dong , and says that it looks really nice , perhaps they 've renovated the interior .
you should go check it out .
so , has the funding issue been resolved ?
yes , he got the money from a japanese sponsor .
there 's nothing to worry .
congratulations .
wow , representative kim has done it in the end !
how impressive .
right ?
in that dirty way .
it 's all thanks to your concerns .
do you know how many hard-working professionals in this field fall in despair because of people like you ?
yes , i 'm well aware of them .
i 'm one of those professionals in this field as well .
excuse me .
yes , director .
hey , you bastard .
is this a joke ?
what ?
what are you talking about ?
how dare you make a fool of me ?
that 's not possible .
why would the money be missing ?
hello , hello !
direc ...... producer joo , what happened ?
did you make the delivery ?
well , thatis ...
representative ...
hurry up and tell me !
writer lee go eun has hid the money bag , so i couldn 't even leave the office .
what ?
representative .
where did you put it ? you were acting as though everything will go smoothly if i wasn 't on the team , but in reality , you had to use such dirty means !
it doesn 't matter .
why doesn 't it matter ?
i didn 't leave just so you could do this !
you left on your own . just give it up .
where is that money ? the money is for producing the drama , not for lobbying with bribes like that .
you don 't know anything , stay out of it .
then explain it then .
there 's no time for that .
just tell me , where is that money ?
i won 't say a word until you convince me completely .
without that money , this drama won 't happen .
are you happy now ? your writing will not be broadcast . if you have to cover everything up with money to produce it ,
i don 't need it .
i 'm the original writer ,
forget about it then .
producer joo .
yes .
when , and how did she hide it ? while i was away for a sec , at least she didn 't leave this place . umm , representative , the golf putting range closes in 30 minutes .
miss writer , representative isn 't doing this because he wants to .
don 't just stand there like that , and say something !
won 't you ?
move .
why should i move ?
i said move !
aren 't you getting out of the way ? you keep ignoring me , you 'd better get a lawyer . even if you get the production going with bribes ,
i will make sure that it doesn 't get aired !
sue all you want .
you 'll be watching my drama as you wait for the proceeding .
open it !
open it !
hey !
man , i keep missing the ball ! it 's not just the balls i 'm missing . my arms and legs feel like they 're not mine .
yes , it 's me , director .
there was a slight accident on our part , but i 'm just calling you now to tell you that i delivered it myself .
yes , sorry .
yes .
you 've still got something to say ?
you !
you know what ?
what ?
what an eeevil ( slurred speech as she 's drunk ) nasty , dirty , jerk you are ?
do you know what a cold-blooded , cruel , infernal scum you are ?
you called me to ask me that ?
sure , i 'll give you my answer .
i am aware of it . more than anybody in the world . living like that , are you happy ?
living stupidly like you , how is that ?
what about you living so stupidly , being trampled and torn apart ?
i am not unhappy .
because , despite the world being dirty like you , i am living .
your kind doesn 't understand the world .
the world has been very dirty from the beginning . by fair means or foul , emerging victorious through force , and dominating the losers is the world .
i am going to triumph in this filthy world .
you are going to fall .
there 's something else you don 't know .
in my mind now , to be living here is hell .
hyung , you 're not coming back tonight ?
probably not .
hyung , it 's a guest .
guest ?
apologies for coming so late at night .
i don 't know if you 've heard but i won 't be able to keep my promise .
i 'm really thankful that you liked my work , but for unavoidable circumstances , i had to quit .
what ?
so are they changing the writer ?
you got fired then .
yes .
i got fired . i got fired because i don 't have any experience .
at any rate , although i won 't be working on it any more , the script still means a lot to me .
please , treat that script like a child that has lost its mother until the very end and fulfill your role with affection .
so ?
did you come to me to get you unfired ?
no , i didn 't come for that at all .
i just ...
but , what do you mean by " no ? " you tried everywhere else , it didn 't work , so you 've come here , pretending to be nice , asking me to help you , right ? asking me to help you , right ?
no , i 'm not like that .
it 's no use .
come to think of it , i was a bit nervous about the writer being a rookie .
this is for the best .
don 't get your heart broken over this . it 's the nature of this field .
that 's not it !
what the heck ?
i put my everything at stake for my " the morning of kyeongseong . "
though i 'm leaving , i want you all to take it seriously with affection .
is that so hard , you idiots ?
! is she crazy ?
what are you doing ?
drag her out of here .
yes . leave .
you morons !
- you 're so drunk .
- it 's mine !
- what 's yours ?
- just go !
- let go of me !
you can 't just get drunk and barge in like that . living like that , does it make you happy ?
screenwriter : lee go eun
hey , unni !
hey , watch your driving !
that was close .
wow , you 're pretty .
- noonim , how old are you ?
- how old are you ?
- unni , you see , we 're hungry ...
- aiiiiiish .... hey , get out all you 've got . hey , get out all you 've got .
stop staring like that and give us your money !
ah well , can 't be helped .
good evening , police officer . good evening , police officer .
i 'm on the backstreet by hyundai villa in cheongdam-dong .
three drunk highschoolers are trying to do something to another drunk woman .
oh , i 'm just a civilian citizen .
one that pays a lot of taxes .
please dispatch someone here quick . thanks !
well ...
i 'm ... really in a bad mood tonight ...
so .. could you guys just ... leave me alone ?
wow , did i just hear that right ?
hey , do you want to die ?
you 'd better let go of me .
honestly ...
what is she ?
you highschool brats !
aren 't you supposed to be studying ?
dang , i should have avoided her eyes .
at any rate , is she really a writer ?
she 's like a gangster !
how scary .
jesus christ !
yes ?
well , do you know lee go eun ?
so if i do ?
this is gangnam police department . i understand that she was drunk , but what kind of a lady beats up three kids like that by herself ?
she passed out once she got here , and we didn 't know who to contact .
we checked her recent call history , and saw that she had made several calls to you .
at any rate , what is your relationship to her ?
she put you down as " youndeungpo crazy dog " on her contacts list .
so i got curious .
three million won ( ~ $ 3k usd ) for a settlement isn 't too bad .
is it ok if she spends the night here ?
huh ?
umm ..
hey hey ! today , on the olympic expressway in seoul , a drunk truck driver crashed his truck and killed one person .
at the time of the accident , the blood alcohol content of truck driver kim had exceeded the level of 0.1 % , which means his license will be suspended .
the police are still investigating the exact circumstances of the accident , and plan to charge truck driver kim with dui .
on another note , early this morning , the director of the drama department of a certain broadcasting station , moon , was arrested without a warrant .
it has been announced that moon is suspected of charges of accepting bribes related to privileges associated with drama broadcasting slots .
the police announced that they will investigate the matters further and will seek strict corrective measures .
additional investigations are still going on .
this news was brought to you by mbs , kim so yeon .
does seeing someone get arrested give you back some senses ?
huh ?
you should thank the person who paid your settlement money . you may go .
settlement money ?
who ? that " youngdeungpo crazy dog " took care of everything .
... drama department of a certain broadcasting station , moon , was arrested without a warrant .
... announced that he is suspected of accepting bribes privileges associated with broadcasting slots ....
thanks for the good news , sunbaenim .
it 's rather surprising that the culprit behind all this is not on the list .
we just got the search warrant , so we 're going through all his office , house , and car .
one of those places should have it .
there 's one more place to check .
one more place ?
a personal locker at ohhyung golf course in nonhyun-dong .
personal locker ?
it is a preferred venue for one of the bribe donors .
yes .
keep up with your good work .
you 've caused director moon to fall in order to get to anthony ? director moon will probably confess everything anyway , but once the money bag is found , that 's the moment of doom for anthony .
then , that broadcasting slot goes back to null .
schedule a meeting for tomorrow morning .
yes . yes .
i like the news today .
yes .
i understand .
the search warrant is out .
as soon as we get there , crack the door open and get the evidence right away .
ah , aish .
get the tools !
this way !
there 's a guy that 's just leaving the building .
get him ! yes , i understand .
this morning , the director of the drama department of a broadcasting station , moon , was arrested .
moon is suspected of charges of receiving bribes for privileges regarding broadcasting slots .
isn 't he from the broadcasting station for your drama ?
is your drama going to be ok when someone big like him gets arrested ?
i think it 'll be ... ok .
seriously .
he should have just eaten grilled mackerels instead of stuffing his guts with other people 's money .
it 's me , producer joo . i just saw the news , is that money ok ?
oh , it was close .
fortunately , representative saw the news and took immediate action , so it 's all safe .
it was really close . we were so lucky .
then , there 's no problem with the drama ?
well , i 'm not sure , for the moment ...
hello .
miss writer , i 'm sorry , but i have to go to a meeting now .
if anything changes or gets decided , i 'll contact you .
now that the director has been arrested , empire will try to shake up the broadcasting schedule .
how are things at empire ?
they submitted the synopsis of " elegant revenge 2 " of writer jeong yesterday through assistant director kim .
i heard that the synopsis is 10 pages long .
you can get a slot even without a synopsis , and this is " elegant revenge 2 . "
what is writer jeong hong joo doing ?
working on the script for the first two episodes .
notify me as soon as the first drafts are done .
who are the potential candidates for the next director of s broadcasting ? based on the accomplishments from last year and the first half of this year , assistant director park is most likely .
have you eaten yet ?
he started out as an open recruit , and has the reputation of being a nice person with good skills among the producers , so many directors support him .
however , based on school ties , some predict that assistant director kim , who went to the same school as the president of s broadcasting , will be the one .
also , assistant director kim 's wife is known for her influence .
she even moved their family residence so that their children would go to the same school as the president 's .
that says a lot .
assistant director kim ....
it was empire 's oh jin wan that caused the fall of director moon .
what ?
yesterday , the synopsis of writer jeong was given to a.d. kim , and director moon was arrested this morning .
to plan an arrest without a warrant the very day of today ... means that they predicted that we 'd bribe director moon .
you mean , the person who reported director moon to the authorities is ...
he wanted to get me arrested .
the decision of choosing a new director is up to the president .
the most likely candidate is a.d. kim .
notify me as soon as s broadcasting makes the announcement of the personnel changes tomorrow .
yes .
you all go home .
yes .
the personnel changes have been announced .
[ announcements from the human resources department ]
- what is this ?
- what does this mean ?
the director is coming !
good morning .
well done .
let me count on your assistance .
i expect much guidance from you all .
let 's take our seats .
we would like to turn this unfortunate event around and use it as a trigger to introduce a revolutionary change in the drama department of s broadcasting .
and i believe that the priority is to ensure that we produce high quality dramas , work with actors loved by the public , and keep the production environment clean and transparent .
consequently , the broadcasting schedule for november determined by the previous director is going to be totally revamped .
that is all .
i don 't accept congratulatory messages .
i know how you hate me the most . i 've been doing business using the dirty , shameless ways of darkness that you hate so much , and i know how you think of me as a morally devoid person .
however , director , please give me this one chance .
i beg of you .
just one chance ?
however , that one chance might allow someone like you to control this whole field of dramas .
i 've decided against it .
i won 't change my mind .
please leave .
- what 's going to happen to our slot ?
hurry ! that position should have been yours , assistant director .
show him who 's really in power in this department .
you 're not my superior !
i will get my work published and proudly present my name , lee go eun on the script .
we 'll reinstate writer lee go eun .
no one would write " the morning of kyeongseong " better than her .
it 's not over yet !
why don 't you just cancel your contract ?
- i 'll help you with that .
- this is all for our drama .
you mean , your drama . the weapon with which anthony , king of dramas , will take back his realm .
i 'll wait for you .
just don 't take too long to return .
episode 6 the division in front of enemies this is your writing contract . well , then ... sign here .
leave now . move ! - get out of my way !
- what are you guys doing ? let go . i said to move !
no , lee go eun !
-what is this ? !
drag him out of here !
you can 't sign !
fine , i 'll give you what you want .
i will leave its genre the same as the current one , noir .
and without the present day 's scene , i will keep the first episode same as your draft !
writer , it 's a lie .
just go ahead and sign .
what 's this ?
drag him out of here !
wait just a minute !
go on .
i 'll take out the supervisor too .
writer lee , it isn 't once or twice that he 's fooled you !
because he 's desperate , he 's lying to get what he wants .
no , that 's not the case . you know how anthony works , it 's all the same as three years ago !
no , lee go eun ! you 'd better be prepared for the law suit , because i 'll never lose it to you .
don 't trouble yourself about it .
you made a good decision .
yes .
we should go eat .
there is a really great japanese restaurant nearby .
next time . today i have another engagement .
ah , yes . if you were thinking of signing from the start , what was your reason for calling me ?
do you know what you just did ?
you just tore my drama , no , my life to pieces .
didn 't know i was such an important person .
what ?
! why not ?
you get to do whatever you want to do but i can 't do what i want to do ?
that 's why i said we 'd do without the melodrama as a noir , without a supervisor , whatever you wanted !
exactly , so fulfill all those promises as you said .
what does that mean ?
director , you are amazing .
in the end , you really defeated anthony .
what did i say .
the one who laughs in the end is the winner .
director , what 's the matter ?
what ?
what did you just say ?
i didn 't sign .
lee go eun !
next time ... so the reason you came here , was to get what you want under the pretext of signing ?
yes , so make sure you definitely keep your promises .
since i have it recorded here .
geez , where did you learn to do that ?
who do you think ? from you , representative .
what ?
why are you so surprised ?
like an amateur ...
i heard this is what they usually do in the field .
do you have confidence you can do it ?
i 'm asking if you can take responsibility for your decision .
what are you trying to say ? if in november we were to completely fail , the sun will shine as if nothing 's happened .
but you and i will be finished . i know , that it 's not just you and i , but all the people involved in this work .
we will either succeed or fail solely on my decision .
that 's why i can 't give up .
we will win .
are you sure you can win ?
i mean , if you 're sure what 's the chance ( % ) of winning ?
you 've always told me , " believe in me . "
this time , representative , it 's your turn to believe in me .
what is this ?
this is the key for that writing space you wanted .
my own writing place ?
so this is something you prepared ?
you thought i 'd make you write in that tiny place forever ?
we must win this war .
that rascal .
here .
over this way .
over this way .
did anyone see a cutter knifer here ?
what ?
on that brick pillar , you shouldn 't paint with white !
not that one , but over there , please paint there .
everyone , enjoy your meal .
did you know ?
that the representative picked this place ?
yes .
you already knew ?
yes .
- so only i didn 't know ?
! i found the place .
really ?
deposit is 5 million won ( $ 5,000 ) and monthly rent fee is 300,000 won ( $ 300 ) . deposit is 5 million won ( $ 5,000 ) and monthly rent fee is 300,000 won ( $ 300 ) .
where should we put this ?
just put it anywhere over here .
cheers .
-cheers !
finally , writer lee gets her own writing space !
it was with everyone 's help .
to be honest , i never imagined director would ever get you your own place ! though director seems like a vicious man from the outside , he 's not like that on the inside .
but hyung , what kind of director will come ?
who knows ?
that ... is not going to be easy .
why ?
i think director kim hyun min would be good for " morning in kyeongseong . "
we 've done other works together , too .
you see , director kim is , uh .... difficult to get , it seems he 's already working on another piece .
then what about director jeong ?
ah director jeong !
.. will also be difficult .
difficult ?
uh , that 's because ...
why ?
do you possibly have another director in mind ?
no , it 's not like that !
just wait a little longer , we 're doing our best to convince ...
convince ?
there was a meeting of the regular pds that caused a problem with assigning a director for the drama .
i will never work with that jerk , anthony .
when he was kicked out of this field , everybody applauded in celebration !
i still get upset whenever i think about the way he humiliated me ! and now , you expect me to work with him ?
yes , i understand your point . but what 's important is that this " morning of kyeongseong " is not just anthony kim 's drama , but a drama of our s broadcasting . do you understand ?
you 're the one who 'd been insisting , director , that the broadcasting stations should not work with scum like him !
it 's not like he 's the representative of empire , he 's just a representative of a rookie third-rate ...
third rate ? !
director kim , your " paradise lost " had hit the rating of 35.9 % .
also , director jeong and director yoon , you all had big hits after working with me and became representative directors of s broadcasting .
how can you , after achieving your current fame thanks to me , call me a third-rate producer ?
! you call that fame ?
it was humiliation !
you were ruling the shooting sites as if you were the director .
i won 't take that again .
i took action only because you weren 't a good leader !
what ?
are you talking down to me ?
what do you think you are doing ?
this is a statement of the position of the regular pds . we 'd like to make it clear to you that every one of us , pds of s broadcasting ,
statement of refusal to work refuses to direct anthony 's production , " morning of kyeongseong . "
let 's get out of here . you normally persist with your own decisions , why are you backing down this time ?
are you trying to get back at me ?
get back at you ?
get back at me for having my way with the slot .
representative kim ...
do you judge all the people of the world by your own standards alone ?
just answer my question . i 'm the director of the drama department . regardless of whether i like the slot decision or not , once it has been decided ,
i have also put my life on the line for this drama .
happy now ?
oh , yeah ... and also ...
does it ever occur to you that your twisted ways of doing business cost you the trust of our pd 's ?
i trust viewership ratings more than people .
also , i 'm one of .. no , more than anyone , have put my life on the line for " morning of kyeongseong . "
if we can 't find one internally , then ...
i 'll bring a seasoned veteran director from outside .
a seasoned veteran ?
like who ?
i think the situation will be the same outside , too .
this morning i saw this coming and i thought of someone .
director goo ?
yeah .
if the internal directors refuse to work with us , why not work with freelancers like director goo ?
he hasn 't done anything in a while , but he is a tried and true veteran .
he was the best at one point , with four dramas that had over 30 % in viewership rating ...
but ... he 's a goner now .
goner ?
five years ago , when he left the field , he retired completely and lives out in the countryside .
retired ?
why ?
i don 't know the specifics , but ... there are rumors that suggest that he 's become an alcoholic .
well ...
i 've also heard that he 's become a dog seller in some remote place .
a dog seller ?
no way .
director goo young mok is a serious alcoholic who can 't even function as a person .
no way he can direct again .
no , that 's something you have to create .
also , wasn 't it you who had produced the last drama of director goo ?
you should know very well what a great director he is , then .
listen to me .
given our current situation , the best person for the job of directing " morning of kyeongseong " is director goo young mok .
no one else will do . we 've asked other external directors whose schedules are compatible , but they all said no .
it takes a dog to recognize a dog .
director ...
long time , no see ' cheongdamdong 's crazy dog . '
i don 't live in cheongdamdong any more .
a dog is a dog no matter where he lives .
come inside .
what brings you all the way here ?
can 't just be to have a drink with me .
i want you to come with me to seoul .
seoul ?
that 's a real dog mess there .
what are you scheming ?
i want you to direct a drama .
drama ?
why ?
is there no one willing to direct for you ?
after not seeing you for awhile , you 're still making me laugh .
stop wasting your effort and go back .
i was done directing dramas 5 years ago .
that 's when my life ended , too .
first day of broadcasting is november 5th , 20 episodes , period piece .
my contact information is included , so give me a call after you read it .
crazy bast * * * .
you 're ruining my drink , get lost !
you 've been drinking for 5 years , haven 't you had enough ?
you 're the one that had said , the place for me to breathe and to stop breathing is the shooting site .
there 's not much time .
you have to give me a decision within 3 days .
get out !
before i stick the dogs on you !
representative oh .
yes , chairman .
explain it to me .
i don 't know what you mean ... the japanese investor , the broadcasting slot !
how much longer are you going to let anthony have his way like that ?
i 'm sorry .
a hound that had been loyal to its master bites the master .
that guy ... what should we do about him ?
we must catch him .
no ...
catch him and kill him .
before he finishes sharpening his fangs in preparation of revenge .
if left alone , he 's going to attack me with those fangs .
i understand .
you 'd better make sure that you do it right this time .
there are so many hounds out there to replace you .
let 's go .
it 's been awhile .
yes . yes .
once more ... i 'll need your help .
when do you have time ?
hello everyone !
our guest today is south korea 's most popular , handsome guy , the prince in the drama industry . the top star , everyone who is it ?
kang hyun min !
korea 's best top star , kang hyun min , come on out !
wow , seriously , your popularity is as high as the sky , mr. kang hyun min .
oh , thank you .
everybody , as you see kang hyun min in person , how do you feel ?
he 's so hot !
- he 's so handsome !
they say you are very good looking .
thank you .
when i see you here , seriously , the word " sculpture-like handsome guy " used to describe you isn 't exaggerated .
oh , you overpraised me .
thank you .
wow , you 're even humble .
indeed , you 're the top actor .
yes , yes , yes .
how do you feel about all these people coming out to see you ?
oh , well , of course , i 'm very thankful .
is that so ?
yes , i 'm so grateful .
people who love kang hyun min , scream !
thank you so much .
thank you , thank you .
yes , yes .
kang hyun min ssi , i don 't think we can do an interview here !
i agree .
let 's go inside and do the interview .
shall we ?
because , in this crowd ... i just don 't think it 's possible .
i understand .
okay , everyone !
we 'll be going in now .
see you guys later !
look outside .
all your loving fans are still outside .
your popularity is incredible !
thank you .
so , i heard you 're shooting a new drama .
yes .
the drama 's called , ' morning of kyeongseong ' and i am playing the role as ' kim woo jin . '
'morning of kyeongseong ?
' wow , the title 's very impressive .
so , is there a reason why you chose this drama over others ?
well , let 's see ...
reading the script made my whole body shudder .
it gave you the shudders ?
i thought this was one drama i should never pass on .
i see ... reading the script gave you the chills .
i 'm really looking forward to seeing this drama .
but , on another note ...
yes ?
there 's a rumor that you 're being paid the most among all actors in the country .
that 's right isn 't it ?
that ... is not true . when i select a drama
i do not ever take into account how much i get paid .
i leave all that to my manager so , in truth , i have no idea how much i make .
a drama is a work of art .
i believe that excessive thought of money ... can be fatal to an actor .
wow , ' excessive thought of money can be fatal to an actor ?
' you are truly a great actor ....
what 's wrong ?
no matter how much i think about it , i 'm still angry .
does it even make sense that a drama is not made melo ?
this drama seems better that it 's not melo .
darling , do you think i like melo dramas ?
melo is money ... money !
it has to be melo so people love the drama , and that 's exactly how i get cf offers !
ah , that 's right , the director can change that .
the director can change it towards a more melo drama .
what ?
who 's our film director , kwang soo ?
who knows ?
has it not been decided yet ?
call anthony and find out .
right now .
who is it ?
who are you dating ?
it 's ...
- it 's ...
- who ?
!
you ' one night ' viewers . ( this show )
hello ?
you bastard !
director goo ?
yes , you piece of trash .
did you read the script ?
shut up , you dog !
please calm down ... no matter how much i think about it , i 'm too pissed off to calm down .
why did you just bring me such an impressive script now !
are you listening to what i 'm saying ?
you rotton excuse of a human being .
yes , i 'm listening .
where are you right now ? i 'll be there as soon as the sun 's up tomorrow , so you all better be prepared !
what is going on that we 're meeting so early ?
i 'm a bit worried ...
good morning !
now , everyone say hello to ...
director goo young mok , who will be directing ' morning of kyeongseong . '
it 's nice to meet you gentlemen .
i am goo young mok .
what are you doing not applauding ?
who 's that dummy over there ?
oh , i 'm a new script writer , but not a dummy , director ...
my name is lee go eun .
oh ?
so you 're lee go eun .
you also look like a something ' alright .
i look forward to working with you !
welcome to the team , director !
let 's all do well .
welcome !
hello , director !
oh , it 's been too long .
hello , director !
nice to see you again !
oh !
sunbae-nim !
hello , sunbae-nim !
oh , how long has it been ?
have you guys been well ?
yes , yes . are you excited now that we 're in some real chaos ,
crazy dog ?
could you please not call me ' crazy dog ' anymore ?
drop the pretense , you punk .
wow , how long has it been ?
why are you so excited ?
this is it , isn 't it ?
stop your fussing , you punk .
they 're here .
aigo . director !
welcome back , director !
it 's been a very long time !
so you 're the broadcasting director dog now ?
ah , yes .
you 're still the same , director goo .
speaking of which , you 're still here ?
ah , director ... please show me your enthusiasm , just like you did when i first entered the company .
please take good care of the show .
ask that to the rating .
both you and i will die or live depending on that number .
it 's this way .
this is the place .
writer lee ?
nice to see you !
hello , director !
hello !
director of photography !
wow , how long has it been !
?
this is the lighting manager .
wow ... how long has it been ?
this is the director of photography .
this set is impressive !
do you think ...
director goo won 't have problems ?
there has to be problems .
pardon ?
we supported anthony to get his time slot and we now have some power ... now , we must take director nam down . wouldn 't it be easy to take director nam down , if his first drama , as the broadcasting director , fails ?
how do you feel ?
i 'm so excited !
it makes my heart flutter that my own script will be made into a real drama !
keep that up with your script , too .
yes , director .
we should have dinner together with the team .
i 'll make a reservation at a restaurant near the company .
i 'm already meeting someone tonight .
director goo is a charming person .
yes , yes he is .
but don 't like him too much .
there 's no such thing as a conflictless drama , but there 's no such thing as a conflictless set either .
aigo , director !
how do you do , director ?
i 'm kang hyun min .
i see , you 're hyun min .
rascal , you are indeed handsome .
please make me look good on camera , too .
okay .
sit down , sit down .
i can 't tell you how glad we are that you are here , director .
i would especially like to talk to you about the genre of noir regarding this drama .
what are your thoughts on the genre ?
that 's what i like about it .
the fact that it is a fresh genre without the cheesy melancholy .
that 's why it really suited me .
that 's right .
you 're even good at selecting a good project ... i see why you 've become such a star , hyun min .
yes . but even though i think that it 's okay , in general wouldn 't it be good to have a little bit of melo [ drama ] in it ?
don 't pay any attention to that anthony-like nonsense !
no , no , i don 't .
especially the ending scene of episode 1 ... is so full of the genre , it 's awesome !
exactly !
starting with the ending of episode 1 , we 're going to overwhelm the screen ! hyun min , your sharp eyes and your sculptured body will be captured by 12 cameras , action !
explode !
jump into the sea !
flames of fire everywhere . splashes of water can be heard as you swim across the tall waves .
close in on the sharp eyes of kim jin woo , and then ...
cut ! director , this is amazing !
the best scene ever in korean drama history !
what 's even more impressive is that we 're doing it for real without computer graphics .
gwang soo !
by the way , you do know how to swim , right ?
of course . i 've been training just in case .
do you know how to swim in the sea ?
excuse me ? the sea ? even though the weather is not ideal , it 's not winter yet , so the sea should be okay .
you can do it , right ?
eh ?
yes .
very good .
we should do this as we had originally planned , - yes .
and if we need more , we can talk later as they come up .
- yes .
you go and show him .
what ?
you should look at this .
director goo said to redo the budget for episode 1 according to this ...
where is director goo now ? five years is a long time , but " morning of kyeongseong " has given me hope out of that despair . i , goo young mok , will treat it as if it were my last drama , and leave my old , idle ways of life and pathetic attitude behind .
i will put my very best into this project ! therefore , this project will be shot at a huge scale to match the quality it deserves , and we have a long , arduous journey ahead of us .
everybody , are you ready ?
!
yes !
though it 's not alcohol , let 's have a toast .
for " morning of kyeongseong ! "
cheers !
oh , representative kim , good to see you .
have a seat . before that , let 's talk outside .
what ?
what do you want to say ?
what is this ?
what about this ?
you 're asking why ? twelve cameras , a helicopter , 1,200 extras , the costs for actors , costumes , and food for filming for 5 days , and even an exploding cruise !
you want to spend over a 1 billion won ( ~ $ 1million ) for just the last 5 minutes of episode 1 , are you for real ?
yeah , and so ?
what about it ?
there 's no way we can do that .
can 't do it ?
yes , can 't do it .
i want to pour every last drop of my passion into this , why can 't we do it ?
! why should i burn my money to fuel your passion , director ?
this is the most important scene of this drama ! even so , over a billion won for just 5 minutes is too much . i 'm preparing a team that can work with a reasonable budget , so work something out with them .
and if i can 't do that ?
then i will be forced to use my last resort .
what 's that ?
you 're saying you will fire me ?
if you won 't change your mind , then , yes , i 'll fire you .
don 't play around .
you may be the one who brought me on board , but you can 't kick me off so easily .
that sounds fun .
oh it would be very fun .
really , what 's your personal problem ?
if people don 't do what you want , you threaten to fire them .
if you don 't know , but out since it 's not your concern .
representative !
find another director .
i already told you .
there is no one else .
find one !
even if you have to search the whole country , or the whole world !
if there isn 't anyone , create someone !
yes , mr. kang hyun min .
where ?
has it been 3 years ? enough with the formalities , you 're the representative of the empire production .
but who is it this time ?
the one you want to teach a lesson ?
it 's someone you also know very well .
if it 's someone i know very well , who is it ?
kang hyun min .
actor kang hyun min ?
i 'm counting on your help .
just like when you helped with bringing down anthony with the media reports 3 years ago .
just like bringing down anthony 3 years ago , huh ?
anyhow , why is kang hyun min your target ?
if i can 't cut off the head of the enemy , i shall cut off his hand that wields the sword .
me , go in the sea ?
even in the winter ?
does this make any sense ?
what kind of a director is he ?
he needs to learn to respect his actors .
what if , while shooting the ending of episode 1 , something goes wrong like that ?
what about the rest of the drama ? i 'm irreplaceable for this whole business !
writer , are you listening to what i 'm saying ?
well , can 't you just go along and do it ?
no way ! they want to dunk me , kang hyun min , the superstar , into the cold winter sea !
just do it ?
do you even know what the sea temperature is today ?
i even looked it up .
it 's 6c ( 43f ) !
six degrees ! i can 't do this .
no , i choose not to !
you call yourself an actor , but the reason why you won 't do it is because it 's cold ?
yes , it 's because it 's cold !
i can tolerate a lot of things , but not cold !
never !
suck it up !
i refuse to suck it up .
cut out that ending scene of episode 1 .
what 's that ?
or fix it so i won 't have to swim .
i 've got plenty of other mind-wrecking things right now , do you have to add to that , kang hyun min ?
you promised .
that you would write for me .
how is that promise related to this issue ?
no matter what , i won 't go in the sea . either , talk director goo out of it , or change the script .
i 'm leaving .
you 're implying you 'll fire me ?
if you don 't change your mind , then , yes , i 'll fire you .
what is this ?
this is the budget list of episode 1 based on the wishes of director goo .
and so ?
so ? !
it can 't be produced this way !
i 'm going to change the director .
have you tried reasoning ?
he 's very stubborn .
isn 't persuasion one of the skills of a producer ?
right ? if persuasion doesn 't work , then you should increase the budget .
so you 're a person without skill , producer kim .
in such a circumstance , don 't we have to change the producer instead of changing the director ?
director !
representative kim ...
right now all the directors said that they can 't shoot a drama with you .
in such a case , what do you think will be our choice as a broadcasting station ? representative kim , if you have no skills , quit .
we will sign a contract with director goo directly and make this drama on our own .
this person ...
writer lee ...
didn 't director goo contact you perhaps ?
he didn 't .
and the representative ?
well , that ... he went to the broadcasting station .
it seems like he 'll tell them that he 's going to fire director goo .
writer lee ...
taxi !
you can come in .
you were looking for me ?
ah , yes .
yes , director nam .
about " morning of kyeongseong ... " there is a possibility that we will be producing it ourselves , so please make preparations for that .
but ...
in-house production ?
yes .
yes ?
director , someone is here to see you .
okay .
oh , writer lee .
how ... is the script-writing going well ?
yes .
as you may know , there is a bit of a problem between director goo and representative kim .
but you just need to focus on writing , writer lee .
i came because i heard that our representative was here .
yes . you 'll have heard of it , our representative and director goo , neither of them are willing to give way .
it would be good if you could mediate between them .
please do us the favour . well , i gave a final notice to representative kim and since you will find it out soon , i 'll tell you what 's going on .
if producer kim can 't clear up this situation , we have no choice but to produce " morning of kyeongseong " ourselves at sbc .
in-house production ?
yes , in-house production .
so , that means world production will be excluded from the production team .
do you really ... have to go this far ?
ah , nothing about your role will change , so please don 't worry too much .
i 'm sorry , but i think producing the drama through world production is the right choice .
but , why are you on representative kim 's side ?
are you trying to repay him for reinstating you as the writer ?
huh ?
representative kim reinstated me ... ?
what are you going to do now ?
i heard it from the director himself .
he said if it 's not director goo they are going for in-house production .
it 's not for you to interfere .
so are you going to pull out of the production ?
that 's not for you to worry about either .
i 'm asking because i 'm curious how you 're feeling .
you fired people whom you don 't like , but now you 're in the other side 's situation .
so i 'm wondering how you feel , probably it f * * * ing sucks .
it feels dirty and pathetic , right ?
that 's why people hate you .
don 't concern yourself .
that 's why there is no one left at your side .
i don 't need those bastards .
but you said you wanted to make a successful comeback .
to make that success last long , you must not lose people . you don 't have any power now , not like when you were in empire .
what , are the things i said not correct ?
am i not correct ? that 's right . making this drama successful and taking the reward from it for my comeback is the purpose of all of these .
and avenging on those people who took away my position and trampled on my power is the reason .
are they all like that ?
people born and raised in wealthy homes and priviledged environments ?
are they all like you ?
why can 't you just accept the reality of having fallen to the ground ?
is resenting the world your only option ?
so ? did i do anything wrong ? you , why on earth did you end up making dramas ?
there 's no such nonsense as a reason .
you ... why on earth did you end up making dramas ?
you jerk , what did you say !
?
if you call me a fatherless son of a b ... once more and you keep prattling on about my mother not being able to see , i 'll kill you !
what kind of kid is taught that ?
since you 're blind , i can 't tell you to look ( at my son 's face ) .
what are you going to do about my son 's face ?
!
i am sorry .
it 's my fault , because i 'm so lacking .
why are you not apologizing ?
i didn 't do anything wrong .
what ?
i 'm speechless !
i 'm going to report you to the police !
the likes of this one should eat beany rice .
eun seok 's mother !
eun seok 's mother ?
mother .
the expert already confirmed it .
this suicide doesn 't make sense ...
[ " the head of detectives " - a famous korean cop series in 1971 ~ 1989 . ]
the test result came out .
stature , age , blood type , they all did not match .
- what about the fingerprints ?
- well ...
pay attention to the ... good job , you 're doing well .
did you find director goo ?
yes , he 's in the bongcheondong neighborhood .
i 'll send you his location .
if you don 't change your mind , then , yes , i 'll fire you .
give me a bottle of soju , please .
yes .
what business do you have here ?
are you going back to your cottage ?
get lost .
you bastard , what the heck are you doing !
?
all in all , 1.05 billion won .
this is the money you need to shoot the final scene of 5 minutes you want to shoot .
what game are you playing ?
!
those 5 minutes ... shoot them .
in exchange i 'll ask you one thing .
what is this drama to you ?
nothing will change . " morning of kyeongsang " is my last drama !
it 's not .
it 's the foundation for the next 10 years of your career .
i don 't care about your sweet-talks about the future !
each episode is 60 minutes , so 1200 minutes in total . spending 1 billion on 5 minutes makes the remaining 1195 minutes a stretch .
no , this way your future 10 years disappear . for those momentary five minutes , please don 't throw away your glorious 10 years .
and five years ago don 't forget the day when you hit rock bottom .
hey you crazy bastard !
stop !
if i give up on those five minutes , what are you going to give me ?
the 5 lost years that you want to forget i will turn them into the joy of success .
cleanly , without a trace . hey punk ,
i told you to throw that bluff away first .
if it 's a bluff or not , you will see when the time comes .
director , about that director goo and anthony ...
what about anthony ? director , about that director goo and anthony ... what about anthony ?
well , looks like anthony has worked the kinks out with director goo , so everything is in working order now ! in working order ?
yes !
sounded like anthony was able to persuade director goo .
it seems like ... anthony has changed somewhat .. he 's a different man now ...
what a strange world . alright , i see ... director goo , huh ?
alright .
- see you .
what ?
really ?
yes , i decided to curb down my ambitions . that is a great decision , director !
but what made you change your mind ? nothing special , it 's just 5 minutes , not worth throwing out 10 years ' worth of glory .
wow , i 'm so impressed !
impressed ?
whatever .
once you have enough experience , you 'll become more sensible , too , writer lee .
at any rate , i heard that hyun min refuses to do it ?
yes , he says swimming in the sea is too dangerous and difficult for him .
he asked me to change the script if we couldn 't change your mind .
okay .
so it 's too much for hyun min , huh ?
what time is the appointment with hyun min ?
i 'll get to the point right away with director goo , and you need to chime in right then .
i got it .
you have to stand your ground . be firm .
got it ?
i said i understood .
let 's go , sparta .
get that thing ready , please .
yes , i see .
director , i heard that you like to drink .
so we prepared a special gift for you .
i stopped drinking .
excuse me ?
oh , we didn 't know .... well then , instead of wine ... nah , it 's ok .
as long as i don 't drink . here i 'll pour you a glass .
yes .
director .
about the ending scene of episode 1 , the way i see it , there is something that bothers me .
we 're thinking that the scale is rather unrealistic ...
what do you think ?
i agree .
i was a bit overly excited about that .
that 's right , director !
it was overly unrealistic , indeed !
nowadays , the computergraphic technology is so advanced , you can just do that .
you can just shoot it in an artificial pool , there 's no need to do it in real sea water .
that 's so old fashioned .
that 's not what i mean .
i meant that my ambitions went over our budget .
what ?
then , how are we doing that scene ?
even if we turn down the scale , we should still film at sea .
um , director , what do you mean by that ?
no matter what , we 've got to shoot kang hyun min swimming in the sea .
forget the clown that just poses in front of the camera for good looks , we 're going to turn you into a serious actor with a tenacious passion .
how about it ?
don 't you want to stop being a clown and start becoming a real actor ?
no .
i cannot accept that .
hyun , hyun min !
the wilder the dog , once tamed , turns into something great .
give me just a moment , director .
hyung , how did it go ?
you don 't know ?
tell them they won 't see me until they get this thing sorted out !
huh ?
stop !
hey !
stop !
you can 't just storm out like this !
come back in , let 's talk to the director ... even if i die i 'm not going back in , so shut the door and get lost !
alright , then .
you 're not getting out ?
i can 't get out .
if you don 't get off , i won 't get out either even if i die .
they just took off .
yes .
i also saw with my own eyes that he had a drink .
okay .
i understand . you 've worked hard .
get started with our arrangements .
yes , i understand .
i heard that you and director goo have reached an agreement .
yes .
that 's a relief .
were you sincere in saying it 's a relief ? i 'm just dying to know , how did you do it ?
do what ?
neither director goo nor you , representative kim , are known for compromising their positions .
i made a deal .
what kind of a deal ?
i don 't think i 'm obliged to divulge that information to you .
what ?
!
" a clown that poses in front of the camera for a few good looking shots " ?
" turn me into a real actor " ?
how dare he say that to me , kang hyun min !
don 't you agree ?
!
why couldn 't he say that ?
what ?
!
don 't even think about going back and hiding in a pension in yangpyeong to play video games .
turn the car around .
get out .
i know you don 't really have anywhere else to go .
why are you like this ?
!
you 're like a kid whining to his mom whenever something goes wrong .
why wouldn 't i have anywhere to go ?
then where ?
where would you go ?
i 'll go see my mom !
what ? ouch !
man , everything is just driving me crazy !
aigo , what do i do ?
!
aish , darn it !
shouldn 't we get out ?
oh , are you alright ?
i 'm really sorry .
why do something that 'll make you sorry ?
let the insurance company take care of it .
ah yes , we shall do that .
oh , by the way , aren 't you kang hyun min ?
never mind . just give me your contact info .
of course .
man , what a hassle !
what is going on ?
just a fender-bender . i rear-ended his car .
oh , is that so ?
have you reached an agreement ?
yes , yes .
ah , but i think he has been drinking .
drinking ? sunbae-nim , i 'm sure your project 's going well .
thanks to you .
i haven 't done anything .
it 's all thanks to your skills .
what is it ?
bad news .
what bad news ?
kang hyun min just got caught for drunk driving .
his blood-alcohol content is enough to get his license suspended .
where are you ?
ah , where is this ?
hello ?
hello , lee go eun ?
say something , lee go eun !
preview
tell me ! how did this happen ? if we let kang hyun min resume his role , the public will criticize our whole broadcasting station .
shouldn 't you partner up with someone more trustable ?
let 's replace kang hyun min with a different actor .
i heard that writer lee go eun isn 't doing so well , either , so both writer and actor should be replaced .
i 'm just asking for some time !
carzy dog , we need song bit na . absolutely .
i think everything was a set up , not a coincidence .
oh jin wan .
ah , you 're firing me , kang hyun min ?
if we don 't get this worked out in three days , we 're doomed !
ah , i don 't know , i don 't know i 'm going crazy !
the only person who can solve this problem is your mother .
you know , my tummy aches too much , doctor .
she doesn 't have any external injuries or any special symptoms , why hasn 't she woken up yet ?
the question is .. whether there is brain damage .
who are you ?
do ... i know that person , too ?
why do you not know me ?
you absolutely must remember me !
even if you have to use the power of hatred , just remember me , lee go eun !
episode 7 asphalt gladiator outpatient reception admissiondischarge protocols come to your senses , lee go eun !
tell me ! how did this happen ? !
while the cops caught me for drunk driving , she was on the phone , and then ... it all happened so quickly . go eun ! - go eun !
- wait , we have to get her to a scanner right away .
go eun , why ?
go eun !
go eun !
how did this happen ?
why is my kid lying there unconscious ?
answer me !
i 'm sorry . if by any chance , something happens to my child , i am really going to kill you !
go eun !
go eun !
go eun !
go eun !
go eun !
- there he is !
- he 's here !
kang hyun min !
what is your take on the situation ?
please , even a sentence will do !
kang hyun min !
mr. kang hyun min , would you please explain your drunk driving charge ?
is it true that you were fully drunk , and that your license is suspended ?
what kind of effects do you foresee on your acting career ?
kang hyun min drinking and driving can he do the drama ?
how in the world can he drive while drunk right before his new drama is about to start ?
if we let kang hyun min keep his role , the whole public might criticize our broadcasting station .
well , so ... what does the chief producer in charge think ?
since shooting hasn 't even started yet , i don 't think we need the risk of such a controversial actor ...
so you want to cut him off ?
! yes , if you do something wrong , you should be punished for it , but you don 't want to overdo the punishment to the extent of killing kang hyun min 's life as an actor !
he 's done it to himself !
so , just because the media is criticizing him , you want to jump on the wagon and end his career , too ?
i cannot abandon my actor like that !
replace the actor ?
let 's replace kang hyun min with a different actor .
director !
it doesn 't make sense to keep kang hyun min when the public sentiment is in such an uproar .
plus , it 's not just my personal opinion , but the whole drama department 's opinion .
i can 't do that .
is it because of the contract fee that you 've paid him in advance ?
we can 't take the risk of his ruined reputation affecting our business just to accommodate your financial situation .
i 've also heard that writer lee go eun is not doing well , either .
i think it 's better to replace both the writer and actor this time .
please , give me some time .
replace them at once .
please , give me some time .
representative kim !
just give me some time !
three days .
three days .
resolve all this in 3 days .
if you don 't resolve this in 3 days , no matter how much financial loss may incur , we replace them both .
there 's no way that anthony would want to replace kang hyun min and forfeit the 2 billion won he paid him .
besides , there 's no other actor to replace him with .
moreover , the writer is in a coma . in short , " morning of kyeongseong " is beyond repair at this point .
so , what is it you want ?
if " morning of kyeongseong " is a no go , wouldn 't the empire 's " elegant revenge 2 " be a good sub for it ?
i know very well that you had lent anthony a hand , assistant director .
forgive me for saying this , but why don 't you lend that hand to someone more reliable ?
someone who can really be a big help when you 're in need .
look at them all .
such vultures .
they don 't care about the person who got injured , but only about kang hyun min if he 's coming or not .
how heartless they are !
at any rate , i hope writer lee wakes up from her coma .
what a disaster this is .
what is the problem ?
she doesn 't have any serious external injuries or odd symptoms .
why isn 't she up yet ?
the question is whether there is any brain damage .
once we take a look at her brain scans , we 'll have more information , but at this point , it 's hard to say .
what are you so excited about ?
well , we 're really getting started with the project now !
i know very well that the fate of not just me and you , but everybody involved with this drama depends on the choices i make .
that 's why i can 't give up .
we 'll have victory for sure !
are you sure ?
what percentage is your confidence rating ?
you always said to me , " believe me . "
this time , it 's your turn to believe me , representative .
i 'll stay here , so you guys can go back to work .
no , we 'll wait here , too , until she wakes up .
yeah , even if i tried to work , i don 't think i 'll be able to focus on it .
are we going to collapse here ?
are we going to collapse , throwing a fit like a whiny kid ?
lee go eun will wake up .
absolutely .
get back to work so that we can start shooting with her script right away .
yes .
thank you .
what is it ?
what is it that you have to say ?
about the drunk driving incident of mr. kang hyun min ....
actually ...
-representative !
i found it .
the first news report of kang hyun min 's drunk driving charge was written by reporter park seong bok of daehan daily .
what , park seong bok ?
yes .
the same reporter who had written that calumnious report about the death of the delivery man 3 years ago .
it was also reporter park who rear-ended kang hyun min 's car .
i think it was all a scheme , not a coincidence .
oh jin wan !
where are you going ?
you can 't go in !
representative ... please leave .
move out the way , unless you wish to die .
didn 't i warn you that i was going to win this ...
are you crazy ?
you want to be sued ?
then do it .
oh jin wan , i 'm warning you !
you can do anything to me , but you can 't touch my actor , my writer , my people .
since when did anthony , to whom the end justified any means , become an advocate of justice ?
i learned it all from you .
in order to get what i want , i have to be cold-blooded and merciless , extinguishing every last ray of hope !
then , here 's another lesson for you !
a death match is only between gladiators .
pd joo ?
representative , i 'm calling to inform you about lee go eun .
deputy director ... it 's me .
what i told you to do , i think you should hurry up and proceed with it .
immediately .
representative !
what ?
the ct , did it come out okay ?
um , about that ... she woke up , but ... lee go eun , are you okay ?
who are you ?
do i know him as well ?
you really don 't know me ?
i 'm not sure .
why don 't you know me ?
i am anthony .
anthony who buried you in this field 3 years ago after only using you , and later threw you away again without mercy ! it 's me , anthony !
do you even forget your hatred and resentment towards me ?
this can 't be .
you must remember me .
even if you have to use the power of hatred you must remember me , lee go eun !
so you do know that .
how mean you have been to me !
always you were the one who tricked people , but now how do you feel being fooled ?
do you think i fell for such a clumsy act of yours ?
i 'm sorry but i have been producing dramas for the last 10 years .
i have used the " amnesia " plot more than 100 times .
and also , you ... were the worst among all of the amnesia acting i 've seen .
so if you have time to make this kind of petty joke , use that time to write scripts !
pd joo already brought me my laptop anyway !
hey , go eun ! i brought your favorite , grilled mackerel ....
you 're here ?
pd joo , make sure writer lee gets everything she needs .
yes .
by the way , you totally fell for it earlier , didn 't you ?
i have never seen you being like that before , representative .
so ... you mean " elegant revenge 2 " of empire production ?
well ...
it 's not easy to find a top actor who is available for shooting now . and moreover ,
empire production has finished its set-up for shooting with the casting of kim jin woo .
kim jin woo ?
right now ?
that 's why it 's empire production , isn 't it ?
even if we wait one or two days more , it 's not like any great option will suddenly pop up .
director nam , let 's proceed ( with empire ) right away , no need to wait more ( for world ) . but as it was a promise i gave as director , let 's wait just for 3 days .
if there is no change after 3 days , i will reconsider the project . since writer lee go eun is conscious now , i 'm very relieved then ..
i really drank just one shot , but a license suspension ? those articles are all lies !
that breathalyzer was obviously manipulated !
it 's not the time to whine that you 're wronged !
whine ?
representative ... if even you are treating me like this ...
do you know why you were casted ?
because you 're good at acting ?
because i like you personally ?
no , it was because the station would give me the broadcasting schedule if i brought you .
but because of your reckless behavior , we 're now in a crisis and there is no other actor to immediately replace you either .
if we don 't solve this issue within three days , all of us are finished !
what do you mean " finished " ?
is it decided at the broadcasting station ?
me ?
you will fire me ?
me , kang hyun min ?
what ... should we do now ?
did you request the blood test ?
yes , but ...
i 'm not sure its result from national forensic service will come out within three days .
hyung ... it 's bit na , but she says your cell phone is turned off so ...
tell her i 'll call later .
then , what are you doing for media play ?
that 's , well ...
hyung ... it 's your mother ... oh my god , seriously !
mom !
how many times have i told you that i can 't come to you ? right now , there are tons of reporters waiting in front of my house , to bury your son , kang hyun min , alive !
mom !
do you think your stomachache is a big deal now ?
aren 't you watching tv , mom ?
right at the moment when you had a stomachache and went to the er , i had a big accident , too !
i don 't know .
i 'm going crazy .
let 's talk later , bye !
watch your language to your mother !
she 's my mom , but she doesn 't even have a clue what happened to her son .
she 's nagging why i 'm not visiting her when she has a stomachache .
then , you should visit her !
huh ?
the only person who will resolve this situation is your mom .
well , from now on , our new script will begin .
hyun min , you should lower your head as much as possible .
representative choi and kwang soo , you guys make a way for hyun min , with the sincere mind to help him visiting his sick mother quickly .
hyun min 's mother had a little bit of stomachache and went to er around at 6pm yesterday .
she 's goes to the er so often just like she would visit her spa for a massage .
so the doctors get so frustrated when they see my mom 's name .
yes .
she came again ? that 's because when they look at her , she looks too fine .
so , can you tell me which pain brought you here again ?
the stomach .
my stomach really hurts , doctor .
but last night , to run to your sick mother at er , you had no choice but to drive . but , yesterday , hyun min 's mother left the er at 7 pm .
and the time of my accident was later than 8pm .
that 's why we should make a story .
hyun min got a phone call before that and ran to the hospital !
mom left the hospital with a doctor 's facile prescription .
but then , bam !
there was an accident .
then , today ?
hyun min 's mother 's symptom , which wasn 't serious yesterday , became serious today !
hyun min ...
yes .
you and i , the fate of us is all depends on your mother 's acting today .
where do you feel the pain ?
ma 'am , where is your pain , tell me !
bring doctors !
bring doctors !
it hurts , hurts , hurts !
for now , take ct scans !
yes .
ma 'am ?
oh , my tummy !
aigoo !
mom ! mr. kang hyun min !
mr. kang hyun min had an accident on his way here yesterday , so he couldn 't come sooner .
i heard that she complained about serious stomach pain yesterday , too .
uh .... yes , yes , yes .
then , mr. kang hyun min 's dui last night was because of an emergency with his mother 's health ?
then , mr. kang hyun min 's dui last night was because of an emergency with his mother 's health ? why didn 't he explain that sooner ?
listen , people , this is a hospital .
contain yourselves .
does the mother of kr . kang hyun min know , too ?
we 're waiting for the lab results currently .
do you have any predictions about her diagnosis ?
mr. kang hyun min will have a press conference to answer all these questions .
please leave now .
this smells fishy ...
fishy ?
when is kang hyun min 's press conference ?
this coming friday .
no one must know about our plan .
therefore , make sure that your mother , representative choi , and gwang soo all zip it up .
yes .
we must keep this secret especially from lee go eun , who 'll write your apology to be read at the conference .
even from writer lee go eun ?
but she 's one of us , though ?
she is one of us , but she can 't be one of us when we 're lying .
what do you think she 'd do if she found out about our dishonest plan ?
i got it .
at times , the enemy within us can do the most damage .
never , never must she know !
the mother of mr. kang hyun min is ill ?
last night , she couldn 't keep anything down even .
her stomach was in such a pain ... then , when you said that you were going to see your mother ... you were being serious ?
i know you don 't have anywhere else to go , why are you being like this ?
you 're like a kid whining to his mom when something goes wrong !
why wouldn 't i have anywhere else to go ?
where ?
where are you going ?
i 'm going to see my mom !
happy ?
that 's right .
i 'm so sorry , i didn 't know ...
i understand .
i 'm sorry for not even contacting you when you woke up .
i had no idea that kang hyun min 's mother was ill .
at least the media reports are sympathetic toward kang hyun min .
what a relief .
great relief indeed , now that writer lee is also recovering swiftly .
at any rate , that bastard representative oh has reserved a spot in hell .
attacking kang hyun min 's career with the dui charge was all his doing .
man , the bad karma between our representative kim and representative oh ...
could it be that they were a married couple in their previous life ?
why else would they be such enemies ?
why have you been ignoring my calls ?
is there someone beside you ?
no .
it 's okay now .
i 'd like you to find out one more thing .
see if the mother of kang hyun min is really ill .
do you really have to go this far ?
what 's wrong with you ?
are you getting cold feet now ?
writer lee could have been seriously injured !
why do you think i planned this whole thing with kang hyun min 's dui ?
my target is anthony .
kang hyun min 's dui was just one of the means to get to that end .
lee go eun is just an unexpected , unfortunate casualty .
i don 't care who gets hurt and whose career gets ruined .
whatever you say , i can 't .... if something goes wrong , do you think you 'll be safe ?
if i expose that you were my mole , your career in this field will be totally over .
think of your frail grandmother . unless you want to spend the rest of your life penniless and jobless , and end up watching helplessly as your grandmother passes away , and end up watching helplessly as your grandmother passes away , do as i say .
do you really think anthony made it up ?
we shall find out soon enough . the moment the truth comes out that kang hyun min 's mother was faking her health problems , the dui charge will be nothing compared to that . it won 't be just kang hyun min that falls , but anthony as well will be doomed forever beyond hope in this field .
it 's not like i committed a serious crime , why do i have to do this ?
regardless of the circumstances , you did drink and drive .
you 've betrayed the trust of the public that have loved you , and you 've hurt their feelings .
this is not just for show .
unless you sincerely repent , this whole thing is pointless !
did i ever ask them to love me ?
they just fell head over heels for me because i 'm so hot !
yes , you 're hot .
so you can also make a hot apology .
unless you want to ruin your career .
alright .
happy ?
happy about what ?
you need to practice .
practice until it hurts .
i am only what i am thanks to the love i receive from the public , and i express my deepest regrets for betraying the trust of so many fans ... wait , i think you should pause for a moment after " betraying the trust . "
i think you should lower your gaze slightly before moving on to the next words .
i am only what i am thanks to the love i receive from the public , and i express my deepest regrets for betraying the trust of so many fans .
good . next .
i do not want to try to justify my actions of that day with my personal circumstances ...
that 's not it .
you have to show a surge of emotions .
think of your mom and pause .
... with my personal circumstances .
nah , too weak .
go again !
i will accept all criticisms for my actions and use them to drive myself to become a better person .
hmm .
good .
pardon ?
you think it was staged ?
well , i wouldn 't put it past anthony if he 's desperate enough .
listen , what if anthony just wanted to calm down the public sentiment by staging a health issue with kang hyun min 's mother who is not sick at all ?
moreover , what if the truth came out ?
this would certainly harm the reputation of our station !
yes , i understand .
however , i don 't think we should make a hasty decision about this . think about it , if , as you say , the truth were to come out , kang hyun min 's career would be most affected , right ?
would kang hyun min really gamble his whole career like that ?
listen , director nam . the actor 's career depends on the impression the public has of him .
there 's nothing he couldn 't do to restore his ruined reputation .
alright , i see .
if , as you say , assistant director , the issue turns out to be staged , then ... i will take away the broadcasting slot from " morning of kyeongseong . "
got it ? when answering questions about your mother , don 't hesitate .
you 'll look more dejected . still ,
i think we need to be clear about the issue with my mom .
absolutely not .
too much water drowns the miller .
who 's going to drown ? mom did go to the er that day , and she 's in the hospital . mom did go to the er that day , and she 's in the hospital .
listen carefully .
if people find out that your mother is a fake patient , everything is over .
it will be totally over for you and me both , forever .
make no mistakes .
the fate of you , me , and our drama depends on today .
fate ?
yes , representative .
was i right ?
i was right .
did you record their conversation as i told you to ?
yes .
good . send me a copy of that file , and i 'll text you director heo 's phone number , so send him a copy , too .
you still remember ... what i told you , right ?
if you want to live , just do as i say .
representative !
what is it ?
i have something to tell you .
say it .
just a moment , can we talk privately ?
since we 're busy now , let 's talk later .
this is the cell number of director heo .
ah , yes .
yes , yes ....
yes .
the blood test result of hyun min came out .
it 's 0.04 and lower than the limit !
okay .
now , we just need to finish this press conference well .
oh , thank you jesus !
are you ready ?
let 's go .
i , kang hyun min , have lived getting generous love from all the people for the last several years .
yes , representative .
why has that file not been sent yet ?
that was ... because my cell phone wasn 't fully charged until now .
i will send you that file now . if someone has too many thoughts , he loses many things as well , you know . you know what i mean , don 't you ?
in addition , for all the difficulties the production team of " morning of kyeongseong " had to go through because of me , i 'm giving my sincere apology to them .
so i drove the car myself .
[ voice message ]
[ voice message ] however , about my personal situation , i don 't want to make any excuses .
writer lee could 've been in a really dangerous situation .
why do you think i planned kang hyun min 's dui ?
my target is anthony .
kang hyun min 's dui case is just one of all means to hit that target .
lee go eun was just an unexpected , scapegoat .
i don 't care who gets hurt , or who would be doomed .
woo hee jae , this bastard !
i don 't care .
this is the cell number of director heo .
what were you trying to say ?
i 'm sorry , representative .
i got it .
in return , you do only what i tell you to do .
stop !
writer lee could 've been really in a danger .
representitive !
anthony !
in a press conference which is being aired live , a represntative of a top-class drama production company reveals his own dirty trick to the nation himself . it could 've been a fun show , but luckily you stopped it . with that file , what are you going to do ?
that depends on how you behave from now on .
if you keep digging into hyun min 's mother 's case , i will reveal this file .
then , the public will criticize you , and chairman will fire you who ruins the reputation of the company , just like he did fire me 3 years ago .
are you saying to make a deal with me ?
so you 're not as dumb as i thought .
oh , and one more .
through all medias you 're dealing with , friendly opinions about hyun min will be poured out .
now , the combat between gladiators is finished . i will go back to the colosseum and enjoy my victory , so you 'd better hurry up . however , based on all the criticism and advice you 've given me ,
we will finish our press conference now .
thank you
thank you
thank you
thank you
are you okay ?
how was i ?
was i good ?
the best .
you were bada * * ! especially when you lowered your head for a moment , then , as you continued to talk , with tears ... ! it was art !
of course !
i had especially worked on that part .
have a seat !
where is anthony , anyway ?
what is the reaction of the reporters ?
much better than i had expected .
they 're already releasing sympathetic news reports .
- applause !
- but let me make one thing clear .
i swear , i don 't care what kind of a life you lead .
it 's up to you whether you ruin yourself with drugs or gamble your life away . however , i will not tolerate any mistake from you when you are kim woo jin of " morning of kyeongseong . "
what did that loony say ?
did you understand him ?
i sure didn 't !
congrats !
good job !
well , considering the blood test results and all , i think it 's ok to keep kang hyun min on board .
what do you think ?
it 's too early to tell yet .
what 's important is the public opinion . correct . the numbers may be legally acceptable , but it 's still true that he drove after drinking alcohol .
i think it would be wise to watch the movement of the public opinion .
yes , - director .
i reviewed the reactions of the media reports and the netizens .
yes .
the voice of sympathy is decidedly predominant .
is that so ?
yes .
then , as planned , the november slot is reserved for " morning of kyeongseong " with kang hyun min .
agreed ?
oh , hyung , look at this !
scroll up , up , up , oh , this one !
this one ! oh yes , that 's a good one !
nice shot !
it looks like you were crying .
really crying !
that tear is a real tear .
it 's worth a million dollars .
this is amazing !
take a look at this , director .
our hyun min oppa must have been in so much pain !
the netizens keep posting comments .
hyun min oppa 's big heart is public knowledge .
good .
as you see , the public opinion about kang hyun min is changed 180 degrees overnight .
right now , netizens are signing petitions to go against kang hyun min being fired .
come in .
are you writer lee go eun ?
who are you ?
please to meet you .
i 'm hyun min 's mother .
if you 're hyun min 's mother ...
kang hyun min ... ?
yes .
superstar kang hyun min 's mother .
you 're still weak , stay sitting !
you 're even more sick than i am ; i can 't stay sitting .
well , i am sick .
even if i 'm a fake patient .
what are you talking about ?
you know .
flowers ?
yes , director .
we 've decided to go with kang hyun min as previously planned .
i understand .
you don 't seem too happy .
no , i am happy .
very happy .
by any chance , is this what you 've already anticipated ?
what do you mean ?
no , nevermind . then , see you later .
the station 's drama department decided to keep kang hyun min .
what is that reaction ?
do you have something you haven 't told me ?
something i haven 't told you ?
what ?
what is it ?
kang hyun min 's mother just came by .
how could you trick me like that ?
it 's fine now that you know .
how can you say something like that ?
if i told you honestly , would you have agreed obediently ?
no !
i would never have participated in such a farce !
no , i would 've dissuade you not to do that !
see !
you 're really immoral .
turning someone 's perfectly fine mother into a seriously ill person in a second wasn 't enough ?
someday , she will be seriously ill , i guess .
for your drama , you 've thrown away your father , now it 's your mother ?
because a husband and a wife are equal .
get out .
i don 't even want to look at you , so get out !
i 'm busy anyway , so i can 't stay longer .
ah , that devil !
this devil will go back to home to hell now , so you 'd better write the script for episode 6 .
is he crazy or something ?
what do i do ?
hello .
-hello .
what 's that ?
this is the letter hee jae left .
without saying anything , he said he 's going to resign for personal reasons .
hey .
what is this ?
to writer lee go eun ? representative , i 'm not brave enough to meet you in person , so i 'm telling you like this .
over that last few months , represantative , who treated me so well and to the people in world production with an apologetic heart , i 'm a sinner . the fact that i will not receive forgiveness even with any excuses ,
i know that very well .
so i , somebody pathetic , will be leaving .
our writer 's precious drama , " morning of kyeongseong "
i will pray that it will be successful .
be healthy .
writer lee !
you 've been well ?
you must still be sick ; you should have told us before you came .
i 'm better now .
you want me to forgive him ?
yes .
i know you 're really disappointed and angry , but can 't you forgive him ?
no .
a person who betrays once will betray again .
you make a mistake once .
and hee jae , he 's having a hard time , living with his sick grandma these days .
that 's why he must have been greedy from his youthful passion .
he 's regretting it right now .
what does that have to do with me ?
he 's already fired .
so don 't butt into my business , and you do your work .
why did he get fired ?
actually , i don 't really know myself .
that bastard ... even when i ask , he doesn 't reply .
he doesn 't even pick up his phone anymore .
do you possibly know his address ?
grandma .
do you possibly know this house , # 30 ?
that 's our house .
we don 't have any coffee mugs ... no , it 's fine .
this is good too .
by the way , where 's hee jae ?
he hasn 't come home from work yet .
it 's about time for him to come home .
by the way , didn 't you say you 're working with him ?
oh , i 'm on a vacation .
it 's so strange today .
a lot of people from work visited .
really ?
wh ... who was it ?
they didn 't tell me their name , but ... they said to send this on to him .
ah grandma , do you mind if i read that ? yes , yes . because of my eyesight , even if i read it , i wouldn 't know what it was about .
shut up and come to work early , before i really fire you .
grandmother , i 'm here .
writer lee .
[ loony ]
what ?
what are you doing ?
whatever i 'm doing , why do you have to know that ?
just ...
have you reconsidered about hee jae ?
that betrayer will come to work again .
well done .
earlier , he came to me and begged me to let him work again , crying over and over .
so , is that the reason you took him back ?
no , i just decided to use him for only three months .
don 't worry about useless things , and if you have time to make a call , just write scripts .
wait a moment .
one more thing .
what else ?
why did you lie ?
are you talking about that again ?
reinstating me as a writer was done by you , not the director of the drama department .
i never did that .
tell me .
why did you lie ? i guess you heard some weird rumor , but stop talking nonsense , and just write more scripts .
because i 'm blind , i only see you .
because my heart is frozen , i hug you .
when my trembling lips touch your ears , i say the words i dreamed of ...
good morning !
since i first met you , i love you .
who are you , huh ?
this brat !
huh ?
welcome back !
... those words that came out as tears little by little , fill up my heart as if my heart will explode with those words .
because both of my eyes are blinded ,
okay , then let 's go for our other half face , the main female actress .
yes .
kim ah joong will work a movie with 16 million won budget next month .
and lee bo young is staying abroad now after finishing the last drama so successfully .
kim seon ah , who is so hot these days , is already scheduled for a drama which will be aired wednesday-thursday in m broadcasting , so she 's not available . and jeon ji hyun has a casting inquiry from hollywood now , so she 's waiting for its finalization . and the last , eom ji won , who is doing both tv and movie a lot these days , is done filming a movie now and reviewing scripts for the next project .
she says she will never work with kang hyun min , even if she dies .
why is sung min ah not on this list ?
i heard her schedule is available as well .
that 's because ... she 's an actress of empire production .
she can 't work with us because she belongs to empire ?
yes , because our company is not on good terms with empire .
more accurately , anthony and oh jin wan are enemies so it won 't work , right ?
but why does it ... have anything to do with me ? crazy dog , you told me that if i give up that momentary 5 minutes , you will make sure that i will forget the past 5 years by the joy of success . to taste that joy ,
no matter what .
look at me now ( in french )
wow , you are too good .
miss min ah , you 're fantastic , yes , great !
great pose , ok , yes ! now , ready , 1,2 . good !
you worked well .
it 's done for today .
good job .
- you all worked hard .
good job .
miss min ah , you were amazing today , as always .
i didn 't do much .
it 's all thanks to your great work of photography .
aigoo , you 're even modest !
sung min ah is indeed the best .
thanks for your work today .
don 't you ever schedule another shoot with that man .
why not ?
did he do something wrong ?
i can 't concentrate because of his bad breath !
alright , i 'll look into it .
a skilled photographer who doesn 't have bad breath , ok ?
why don 't you guys go ahead .
it has been a long time .
you haven 't changed .
you 're still good at surprising people .
take this .
what is that ?
it 's the script for the mini series for november mondays and tuesdays of s broadcasting .
i did hear that you were broke .
i guess that means your scale has shrunk , too ?
for you to offer me a script of a rookie writer .
compared to the pathetic writers of empire who haven 't written anything worthy of the return of sung min ah for the past three years , it 's completely different .
what to do ?
in addition to writers , i also screen producers .
is there anything else you need to know about me ?
how much are you going to pay me ?
as much as you want .
you can 't afford that , ever .
sure i can . because you 're the best actress , sung min ah .
read it carefully and give me a call .
my number hasn 't changed .
who is it ?
who ... who is it ?
did i startle you ?
i 'm just teasing .
quite spacious for a writer 's studio .
about the same size as ... the second bathroom of my living room .
quit mocking , it 's my very first studio .
why have you come ?
well , just , uhm ...
i thought i 'd check out the writer 's studio .
i heard that ... you saw my mom .
yes , i did .
i also received great words of wisdom .
hey , you know it was inevitable .
thank you .
i normally don 't say thank you very often .
thank you .
i truly appreciate what you did this time .
i feel as if ...
i found a new friend .
then , be good from now on .
yeah , about that ...
wouldn 't it be better to take out that swimming at sea part ?
i 'd love it if that part was cut out from the whole script !
i don 't know about the others , but you absolutely have to swim in the ocean .
absolutely !
is that all ?
you said you can afford to pay me because i 'm the best actress there is .
yes .
then , let me ask you one thing .
do you still ... love me ?
if you would act for " morning of kyeongseong . "
preview ep 8 how much longer do i have to bathe those filthy brats ?
episode 8 reinforcements will not come hyung , why is he so late returning ? that 's what i 'm saying .
it has already been for more than 5 hours since he left to meet her . um ... representative ?
what ? it 's nothing . pd joo .
yes .
quickly write a news release and circulate it to these media companies i checked , the first thing in the morning tomorrow .
but ... what article are you talking about ?
the title is like this :
sung min ah confirmed as " morning in kyeongseong 's " lead actress .
huh ?
an article about sung min ah joining our drama ?
sung min ah has decided to do our drama .
quickly get started on writing the news release . good work ,
crazy dog .
are you now ready to taste that joy ?
that 's right .
it 's now satisfactory .
what say you , feeling good ?
the best , that 's my feeling . even if anthony is very nasty and mean , if you look into him , isn 't he a pretty okay producer ?
yes .
sometimes i want to beat him up , but like today he 's quite an okay producer .
by the way , when was the last time you took a bath ?
i bathe everyday .
but i 'm not scrubbing often .
no wonder ...
how can it be a human body ?
this is an eraser !
just kidding around .
bath over !
good bye .
bye-bye hyun woo .
don 't catch a cold .
oh , really nice !
why are you here ?
it 's my turn .
teacher , please let me take a break for a moment .
we 're just going to the bathroom for a second .
yes .
for how long do i have to wash dirty , dead skinned rascals ?
you decided to do volunteer work for the meaning of self-reflection .
do you think i 'm asking because i don 't know ?
! it would be enough to just shoot a few photos .
how much are you going to push me ?
! you , listen to me carefully .
in order for you to protect your image as a lead actor which you ruined you are not only scrubbing body grime but also shaving your hair . ( word play in korean )
my hair ?
right . even if you have to show them shaving your hair , you have to show them that you 're self-reflecting .
i 'll just scrub off dead skin .
good .
scrub it off with all your might .
what 's with you ?
eat it .
what ?
i told you to eat it .
if he gives you something to eat , you should eat it .
director !
sung min ah ?
are you saying that sung min ah got casted ?
right .
korea 's top star , kang hyun min with the best , sung min ah .
this is great !
we have the best casting combination , right ?
hyung !
seems like you should come back . the kids are getting cold waiting .
ok , all right .
i 'll go and scrub off those erasers .
get going .
yes .
no way !
even if i don 't know anything else but this . even if i don 't know anything else but this .
with anthony 's drama you definitely can 't .
why ?
are you asking because you don 't know ?
! you always said this when i was a rookie .
this is a royal order .
shut your mouth and do what i tell you .
now i give the royal orders .
meet all the conditions they request , and proceed the contract .
what ?
i definitely told you .
i told you to proceed with the contract .
why on earth are you being like this ?
have you forgotten what anthony did to you ?
! one more thing .
don 't ask me for my reasons from now on .
if you want to continue to keep me under contract .
our affiliated actress sung min ah is doing anthony 's drama ?
i 'm sorry .
even though i told her no , it 's what she wants .
no matter what it takes , i will stop her from acting in that drama .
no .
let her have her way .
pardon ?
what do you mean ...
the attack is allowed just once .
in this one opportunity , it 's important to go for the kill .
if you say " the only opportunity of attack .. " ?
where did you say the investor of anthony 's drama was ?
topstar sung min ah confirmed for ' morning in kyeongseong'
set up the date for the script practice session and the drama press conference on 19th .
kang hyun min sung min ah
lead actor and actress of ' morning in kyeongseong ' .
notify the schedule to all media companies , actors , actresses and staffs .
sung min ah 's drama comeback after 3 years don 't forget to send an invitation respectfully to watanabe group , the investor .
yes !
drama " morning in kyeongseong " ultra-luxury casting yes , reporter park .
have you been well ?
this is world production calling .
i 'm sorry but as it was too urgent .
how is it going with our invitation cards ?
yes , please send them by 12pm .
representative !
the sun has risen a while ago .
stop sleeping , get up and get ready to go out .
where are we going ?
sung min ah said she wanted to meet you .
sung min ah ?
what is sung min ah 's character like ?
probably better than yours .
i read from an article that she is very thoughtful .
hello ! i 'm lee go eun .
you 're younger than i thought .
alright , let 's get some fresh air . you two have a chat .
i read and liked the script .
it 's been a long time since a script made me greedy like this one .
thank you .
but ...
yes ?
if there 's a problem ...
i 'm talking about episode one .
don 't you think that 's too much of the theme ?
too much of the theme ?
" a man 's sorrowful life story who lives in the dark age . "
the theme should thicken as time passes , not shown all at once like that .
that 's why i decided to start by explaining the background with the characters around the main guy .
that 's not what i 'm saying .
then ... the role of jin hye rim i 'm taking on , she 's not at all in episode one and appears last in episode two .
if you brought an actress who is paid many tens of thousands won , you have to show her for the amount of time that fits her price .
what are you imply ...
the female lead isn 't the male lead 's maid of honour .
to fit the name of sung min ah , revise the script starting with episode one .
i fully understand what you 've said .
but the planned story line is ...
writer lee .
yes .
under whom did you learn ?
why are you asking ?
just like i thought , you really smack of a rookie writer .
i will make this clear .
you did not cast me .
i chose you . no , i chose this drama .
so right now i 'm not asking a favour .
i am not trying to give you advice either .
so you 're saying right now that we don 't have a choice ?
it seems you 're not too much of a fool .
do you always crush writers like that ?
no .
i didn 't need to .
the writers i worked with up to now were veterans .
so they were aware and did all that was needed .
the rookie writer who knows nothing will only say one thing .
this drama is not a drama for you alone .
even if it 's for sung min ah , i can 't fix even one character .
you can 't fix it ?
yes .
for an actor who is full of egoistic pride and doesn 't think about the whole drama it 's unnecessary .
you look like you ended your chat well ...
yes .
very well .
you knew , right ?
what ?
do you know what sung min ah said to me ?
what could she have said . to match the role to the worth of her name .
by bringing me even when you knew that , i guess you tried to shake up my script again with the actress this time ? what could she have said . to match the role to the worth of her name .
by bringing me even when you knew that , i guess you tried to shake up my script again with the actress this time ? do you think that way ?
i was wrong for trusting you .
so ... what have you decided to do ?
who did you say was the new director of s broadcasting ?
okay , let 's see .
well done .
oh . make it possible to film this part also .
there will be a hidden scene behind the building .
i 've got it .
good , i think it 's done here , so ...
let 's go to jin hye rim 's room .
oh , writer lee !
hello .
oh , why are you here instead of writing ?
so it 's like that .
what 's the best thing to do , director ?
what did crazy dog say ?
it 's useless to hear from him . they planned together to change up my script .
actors and actresses are so weird .
sometimes , they run into the fire for their pieces , and ... even with not eating and staying up all night , they dedicate to their roles . but what i 'm saying is this .
there is something that the actors never give up .
what is that ?
the tenacity toward their roles .
in other words , they never step back when it 's about getting their portion .
why is it like that ?
well ...
that 's just their nature .
with the natural tenacity they have , they accomplish their jobs .
they are like animals with the only instinct for acting .
then can 't we change their instinct ?
changing the instinct ...
that 's difficult even for me .
director !
all these are part of the struggles .
i wish you a good luck .
yes , director .
yes !
ah , writer lee . come in .
so , i 'll get going .
are you ?
no need to see me off .
i 'll contact you .
yes .
writer lee , have a seat .
yes .
i heard briefly about it .
yes .
right .
i myself am a drama creator also , so i sympathise with your point of view and i 'm rooting for you .
thank you .
but now i 'll talk to you as the director of this drama 's broadcasting station .
sung min ah is an actress which all broadcasters want to acquire .
you know that , right ?
yes .
sung min ah 's demand is a demand that is totally understandable from the point of view of a lead actress .
i hope you consider this point .
did you listen well to what the broadcasting director said ?
do you have to use your strength to pressure me like that ?
yes .
if i say that i do .
let 's talk for a while , us .
our conversation is possible after the revised script comes out .
i clearly told you , i have not agreed to modifying the script .
you .
don 't act up .
your talent is quite something .
first writer lee go eun , now even up to sung min ah .
you return the people whom you threw away coldly back to your people .
you don 't personally need to get an inferiority complex . if there is one thing that i don 't have , it would be the inferiority complex that you stupidly grasp on .
that 's not an inferiority complex , it 's called fury .
don 't make the mistake of thinking that you 've already won .
i never tried to win against you . i am not doing that now , nor will i ever do that .
someone like you can 't become my target .
what to do ?
you 're my target .
then someone who failed with the target right in front of him , must be feeling frustrated .
laugh as much as you can while it lasts .
there will be a day when you will be stomped on severely .
sang tae gu .
this is also so-so . something else .
bit na .
you said this oppa is awesome in whatever i wear .
but why is this not good ?
because you 're cool it 's just so-so .
if that chick sung min ah falls for you then what ?
then it can 't be helped .
oppa !
oppa is many people 's man .
and oppa belongs to bit na . don 't you know that ?
we 're just shooting a drama poster .
from now until the drama ends ... that bitch sung min ah will be stuck to you throughout !
then would you rather have me wear outfits like a beggar while i film the drama ?
then promise . that you won 't look at that chick first .
instead of a promise i 'll give you an oath .
that 's enough , right ? sung min ah is known for her punctuality , but even if i step on hard , i think we will still be late about 20 minutes .
why are you stepping on ?
go slowly .
what ?
if the main actor kang hyun min is late , even if it 's not 20 minutes but one hour they have to wait .
even if she 's hot these days , is she this drama 's protagonist ? if we praise her all the time and do whatever she wants just because she is an actress , it will spoil her . from the beginning , bam !
we should tame her .
run slowly , kwang soo !
as for the poster 's theme this time , what about this ?
in this mood ... - no , i prefer this one .
will that be ok ?
what ?
what ? sung min ah keeps her appointments as sharply as a knife ?
so , didn 't i tell you to run slowly or what ?
kwang soo ?
i tried to come as slowly as possible , but ...
sung min ah arrived !
hello , director .
oh , cp , hello ! - wow , you look fantastic !
you 're the best .
sorry i 'm a bit late .
no , it 's okay . do the make-up and the shooting will start right away .
yes .
- see you at the shooting studio .
min ah .
seems like you 're not good at keeping appointments .
sorry . then ...
see ?
dejecting her with simple and impact words .
she 's totally dejected .
yes , president .
now almost all actors have been decided , only the date that we start shooting is left .
so this is no lesser than anthony .
it is preposterous , but there is one thing i have to tell you ...
let 's hear it . we may be a bit later that the shooting date that is specified in the contract details , is that going to be alright ?
seeing how meticulously you have done the preparations , that is possible .
don 't pay too much attention to it .
thank you very much !
yes .
see you at the production report conference .
oh , good !
wow , whatever the camera takes is totally like a masterpiece !
it 's killing !
hey , this ... this one ...
good !
good ! oh , min ah , it was a good shot !
okay !
good !
do it properly .
act ... ion !
wow , this one is great , isn 't it , sunbaenim ?
wow , whatever the camera takes is the piece , piece !
you worked hard , director .
well done , well done .
what did i do today ?
this is a piece of cake compared to the upcoming brutal schedule .
but ... you asked for a script change ?
i heard it from the broadcaster .
yes .
i thought it would be better if a few points were amended .
i wish the change to be completed before the script reading session , but writer lee seemed to have a lot of thoughts in her mind .
please talk to her well .
then ... ah , yes , yes .
you can leave .
aish , writer lee , this ...
if she 's asked for a script change , she should revise it ! she 's not yielding again ! sunbaenim ,
i think you should step in here . what do you mean " step in " ?
well , writer lee , that kiddo , she 's quite daring , sometimes . -last time , when director moon ...
she 's not daring , but persevering .
without that much backbone , how can she write scripts ?
no , that ... that ... ah , really ... sunbaenim !
hyung !
kwang soo .
who on earth hired that photographer ?
why ? like a die-for fan of sung min ah , he kept saying min ah , min ah ...
min ah ...
it was so annoying i though i was going to die ! hyung , hyung , hyung !
as you were not at the make-up room , i thought you left .
yes . anyway , since we 're going to spend a lot of time together from now on , let 's get along well .
i 'm sorry . my hands are a bit dirty ...
then ... what was that ?
is she ... ?
is she really refusing the handshake of this superstar , kang hyun min ?
crazy ...
aren 't you disregarding him a bit too much ?
he 's just a puppyish brat who thinks he 's an actor .
he 's not even worth conversing with .
yes , chief producer .
writer lee .
are you in your right mind ?
pardon ?
what do you ... mean ?
sung min ah of all people is asking for a script revision .
why can 't you yield ?
why ?
! no need to talk more . as per sung min ah 's request , change the script .
it doesn 't suit you .
in a building that doesn 't suit you at all and the shabby office ...
did you come to confirm that ?
that writer ...
how is she ?
exactly , the same as you see .
she just has her temper , not compromising .
excuse me , director heo ..
it has been only for a short while since you were scouted to our empire after staying in the u.s. for years .
so i guess you don 't know well , so that 's why i 'm telling you this .
kim jin woo really hates anthony .
why ?
back in the day , anthony stole kim jin woo 's woman .
so what ?
what does that have to do with us ?
of course it has something to do , with our representative . among top actors , kim jin woo and kang hyun min who can be used for november , the one anthony can select is only kang hyun min .
this fight can be defined as the total war between anthony , who will put his life on the line to have kang hyun min for the casting , and our representative oh .
currently , kang hyun min is considering " getting married to my man , " and ...
by the writer gong ji young ?
representative , kang hyun min is doing a fan meeting at the diamond hall of ace hotel .
it ends at 5 o 'clock .
prepare a clean copy of the script . i 'm taking off .
yes .
what are you doing ?
i 'm making myself engrave him in my mind . that way he can be alive in the script .
so have you engraved him well ?
the more i think about it , the more i like it .
he looks intelligent , with an air of melancholy about him .
once you see him in person , you 'll find out in less than a minute how intelligent and melancholic he is .
what ...
you raise me up , so i can stand on mountains .
you raise me up to walk on stormy seas .
i am strong when i am on your shoulders
you raise me up to more than i can be
you raise me up to more than i can be
long time no see !
yes , hello .
you should be holding fanmeetings in japan and china besides this crowded seoul .
so i should .
i have a good drama in the makings , you should work with me .
you 're still making dramas these days ?
i got an investment of 10 billion won from japan .
good for you .
i 'll get the november broadcasting slot at s broadcasting .
i did hear that tae joon has been seriously injured .
i guess he couldn 't get up this time .
i 'll cut to the chase . this is my offer .
the best rate in the nation , 100 million won per episode .
100 million ?
20 episodes , so 2 billion . once you sign the contract , you 'll be paid the total amount within 15 days .
yes ?
the total amount ?
i guarantee you the quality of the drama .
moreover , as it 's being funded by a japanese source , we can even try for a national broadcast in japan .
then ...
it 's the birth of a new hallyu star .
you 'll be rolling in dough . to tell it like it is ,
i know that you need big money for the shopping mall business that you started beyond your means .
if you just sign the document you get 2 billion .
what about the script ?
have a good look at it and meet me at the restaurant at the cheongdam intersection .
i 'll do that .
read it fast , but pay attention .
it 's a voucher worth 2 billion .
you 're really cool , representative .
but do you think kang hyun min will come there ?
there is one thing people know about kang hyun min and one thing they don 't .
although they know that kang hyun min is a star , they don 't know that he 's the world 's biggest idiot who only knows money .
he will come without question .
i 'm going !
i , kang hyun min , am getting 2 billion and going to the world !
go to hollywood , let 's go partytime .
kwang soo , turn it up !
empire 's representative oh jin wan hey turn it off !
yes , representative oh .
hello !
i 've heard that you were being bothered by some pathetic scripts lately .
i 'm calling to disperse your worries a bit .
we 're planning to do jeong hong ju 's project , how about it ?
if it 's writer jeong hong ju ...
elegant revenge 2 ?
wasn 't shin yang hyung going to do that ?
it 's empire 's best drama , of course we have to go with korea 's best actor .
oh my god .
aren 't you just asking me because shin yang refused it ?
what are you talking about ?
to me , the best actor in korea is always kang hyun min , no question about it .
please send the script , then .
in any case , it 's writer jeong hong ju who can turn everything to gold .
that guarantees the quality of the work .
what month is the broadcast ?
november . at s broadcasting .
november at s broadcasting ?
why ?
no , it 's nothing .
ah , right .
you know the guy called anthony , don 't you ?
by anthony you mean ... ah , the person who was at empire in the past .
it looks like he 's trying to start again with a japanese investment of 10 billion .
didn 't he come look for you ?
no , he didn 't .
ah ...
i heard there 's a problem with the japanese contract .
at any rate , i 'll send the contract to your agency .
give me a call when you make up your mind .
i understand , have a good day .
yes !
dang , now i 'm confused .
hey , hurry up and turn around .
huh ?
hyung , what about the charity event for senior citizens ?
listen , it 's a matter of billions of money .
i can care less about those senior citizens !
just turn around , now !
man , i 'm so confused .
anthony ...
i see that he got to talk to kang hyun min before i did ...
what do you think ?
what did you think , hyung ? darling , if i had the brains to tell whether a script is good or not , would i ask you ?
i really like it .
i 've never seen any drama like this before .
it 's refreshing .
is it .. ?
but hyung , shouldn 't you be talking to the representative ?
don 't worry , i can talk to him after making up my mind .
telling them too soon will only cause headaches .
then , hyung , what are you going to do ?
this one or the empire 's ?
well ... honestly ...
i like this , but ... but i 'm not sure if anthony really got funding from a japanese source or if he 's bluffing ...
hyung , if it 's not certain isn 't it better to go with empire ?
empire .
empire .
empire .
gosh , this gives me a headache .
kang hyun min 's manager just called .
his highschool teacher died , so he had to go to the funeral .
so he can 't come here today .
it 's oh jin wan .
pardon ?
the empire has targeted kang hyun min and played some tricks .
seonbaenim .
it 's me .
i see that you talked to hyun min already .
what the ...
why are you so obsessed with kang hyun min ?
why do you think i 'm doing this ?
do you think i really like that idiot who can 't even write his own name in chinese ?
his voice is pathetic , he thinks acting is all about posing , he 's such a stuck-up who 's crazy about money .
why would i be obsessed with him ?
i 'm just ... using him to destroy you , seonbaenim .
is this ... a challenge ?
the one sitting on the throne of the empire is me .
and as long as i 'm empire 's representative , you definitely won 't be able to make a comeback .
representative , it 's a bad news !
kang hyun min , confirmed casting for elegant revenge 2
seeing that they 've already published news articles about casting kang hyun min for elegant revenge 2 , i guess the empire has already taken action .
find out where kang min hyung is .
right now .
yes .
i 'm going to kang hyun min 's house .
what are you doing ?
aren 't you going to see that intelligent actor with an air of melancholy ?
me too ?
since we don 't have a director yet , we should at least introduce the rookie writer to him .
should i go ?
where on earth do you think he went ?
that 's what i want to ask now .
yes ?
we found him , director .
today is an actor kim jin woo 's birthday and everyone is inside a vip room drinking alcohol .
thank you , thank you !
congratulations .
thanks .
hey . you 're really made the right choice . i just came back from china after filming some drama there , but anthony , that son of b * * ch , is acting up to come back , i guess .
he can 't come back . he 's a jerk you should never work with .
why do you not like that guy ?
you don 't have to know that far .
it 's not just one or two people who hate anthony in this field .
oh , that 's right . thinking of that , the girl you dated with a few years ago , anthony took her away from you , right ?
who did that ?
got it ? okay !
cheers .
it 's been a long time .
wow , indeed , i can 't win over you , representative kim .
want a drink ?
we should do introductions .
this is writer lee go eun , the writer of " morning of kyeong seong . "
hello .
director , you really ...
this there a reason for me to meet this person ?
how much do you want ?
did you not see the article ?
i will give you more ( money ) than empire . how much do you want ?
representative , i 've decided to work for " elegant revenge 2 . "
okay , fine .
you can trust empire production .
but , you 'd better not trust oh jin wan of empire production .
what on earth is the reason that you 're so obsessed for kang hyun min ?
why would i be ?
do you think i 'm doing this because i like that guy who is too ignorant to write his own name in chinese characters ?
he has terrible vocal , and thinks his acting is the best .
that rude jerk who is crazy about only money , why would i obsess about him ?
i 'm just ... using him to destroy you , sunbaenim .
hey , you guys , leave us alone .
i 'm going crazy ... representative oh , that son of b * * ch !
geez , how embarrassing !
are you insane ?
did you have to turn it on in front of those guys ?
are you going to do it or not ?
i 'll do it .
but will just ask you something .
why are you two like that to each other ?
i will tell you truthfully .
this is the war between me and oh jin wan of empire production .
and you 're now on board of my ship .
the war . it 's already started . during the first shooting of " top secrets , " the drama which was planned to be aired in november , because of some accident of choi tae joon , the main actor , he was recommended to have 8 weeks of rest and he 's now getting treated at the hospital .
production team for this drama decided that no more shooting is possible .
so the drama " top secrets " is canceled . as for its replacement drama , we 're looking into all possible options with open-mind , but so far , there is nothing decided yet .
director ! there is a rumor that " elegant revenge 2 " will replace that , but is it true ?
please tell us more !
is it true that writer jeong hong joo 's drama will be aired ?
then , what is the best among those options ?
director , it 's of course " elegant revenge 2 " of empire production .
it seems that kang hyun min is in the casting . well , it 's not like he has signed a contract , and there is only its title , not even the synopsis , so how can we say if it 's good or bad ?
cp na , how could say that ?
if writer jeong hong joo heard that , she would 've been upset .
what na moon young said isn 't totally wrong .
even if it 's jeong hong joo from empire , we don 't have to beg her first .
then , what 's the best among the dramas with scripts ? well , considering only the drama itself , " morning of kyeong seong " is the best .
kang hyun min is going to work with me for my drama .
yes , reporter park .
i 've met him in this morning and finished all the discussion .
he 's on bad terms with his representative , so he even asked me ( for this role ) .
what do you mean , empire ?
hyun min said he hasn 't even met anyone from empire . [ kang hyun min , didn 't even meet production team for " elegant revenge 2 " ]
will he play in a drama which doesn 't even have a script ? [ will kang hyun min play for elegant revenge 2 ? - no script is made yet . ]
that 's right , he said it was just one of all dramas he was looking into .
[ kang hyun min ' elegant revenge 2 ' cast " no ! " ]
director !
right now kang hyun min-
so you 're trying to do some media play ?
in real time , the refutation news is being uploaded .
what shall we do ?
what shall we do ?
contact the representative of his agency .
aigoo , seriously !
hey !
how could you decide such important matter without me ?
if you discuss with me , will i take more commission from you ?
hyun min , it 's empire , empire !
do you want to fight against representative oh and finish your actor 's life ?
aigo , seriously , you brat .
hyun min ! damn ! i 've lost my face in front of my friends , but if i work with reprentative oh , those guys will think of me a moron !
i will make representative oh apologize to you !
do you want him to apologize in front of all those guys ?
oh , i don 't know !
i don 't know , i don 't know !
director oh aigo , i could barely persuade hyun min .
yes .
please don 't worry .
all those articles which anthony released are now removed .
i 've just received that report .
[ kang hyun min , reconfirmed to act for " elegant revenge 2 " ]
so , who finally got hold of kang hyun min , reprentative oh or anthony ?
well , i can 't figure it out , either .
there are even some articles which disappear if you click them .
but if you go to some other sites , again you can find ... tell both of them to come to my office immediately .
sunbaenim , i think i clearly warned you .
then , i will warn you too .
i got kang hyun min .
haven 't you seen all those articles getting removed weakly ?
i 'll get to the point . whether bringing the contract with kang hyun min to me , or bringing hyun min in front of me , bring me something firm .
director , are you now doubting about me because of anthony 's media play ?
i 'm the representative of empire .
representative oh . even if you 're the representative of empire production , the drama director here is me !
as you want , director , i will bring kang hyun min in front of you . anthony , there is no one who would fall for your words , so just make sure to bring him .
by 11 am tomorrow , before our meeting for broadcasting schedule , bring kang hyun min in front of me .
the person who brings kang hyun min tomorrow will be the owner of november time slot .
the number you called is busy now .
the number you called is busy now .
pd joo , what about kang hyun min ?
representative choi , what about kang hyun min ?
what ?
kang hyun min is under water ? ( implying " hiding without any contact detail " )
even without road manager kwang soo , he 's been out of reach for 8 hours .
out of reach ?
have you searched all possible places ?
are you sure he went under water ?
if kang hyun min went under water , he wouldn 't go where he usually goes .
from now on , anyone who is close to hyun min , whether it 's an actor , or a manager , find those people who are staying home today and visit all those houses .
their homes ?
don 't you know that kang hyun min is a video game addict ?
you 're his road manager , but what did you do , not sticking to hyun min ?
well , i went to the rest room , but when i came back , he was gone ...
i 'm sorry .
where do you think he will possibly go ?
he 's not at jang geun seok 's house .
what about your side ?
he 's not at ji sung 's house , either . as kang hyun min 's cell phone is still turned on , i was going to ask yoon gye sang 's help , thinking he might answer to his call , but gye sang ssi isn 't not answering my call .
i 've already tried that method .
cell phone .... ?
i 've already tried that method .
cell phone .... ?
long time no see , detective lee .
so you want us to track down the location of kang hyun min using his cell phone ?
yes , that bastard 's cell phone is on .
you know , that 's illegal .
i know it 's illegal . that 's why i 'm asking you .
hello professor , this is lee go eun .
i talked to you before about doing some background research for a drama . actually , there is something i 'm not quite clear about , actually , there is something i 'm not quite clear about , so i was wondering if i could meet with you again .
yes , mornings are fine with me .
of course .
then i 'll see you at the school .
thanks .
that kang hyun min bastard , maybe he 's passed out somewhere drunk on purpose to annoy us .
on purpose ?
would he have taken his game console if he did it on purpose ?
how do you know that he took his game console with him ?
well , actually , the thing is ...
just spit it out !
he said he 'd fire me if i talked !
i 'm your employer !
now , talk !
he 's in yangpyeong .
yangpyeong ?
i got it , detective lee .
producer joo , find out who 's the closest to yangpyeong and give me a call .
kang hyun min is in yangpyeong right now .
kang hyun min is still alive and well .
hyun min , let 's go to hollywood .
go to hollywood .
i 'm your father .
what have you found ?
yes , looks like writer lee go eun is the closest .
what ?
lee go eun ?
yes , she texted me this morning that she 's going to the yicheon moonhwa university at 9 .
i 'm so glad that your work is going to be made into a drama .
it 's not confirmed yet , but it will be decided soon .
well then ... i don 't mind ; you may take the call .
i 'm so sorry .
i can 't take your call at this moment .
hey , don 't hang up !
i 'm in the middle of an interview .
our whole fate is in your hands .
kang hyun min is in yangpyeong , and we need him by 11 to do our drama .
you 're the closest , so move right now !
where in yangpyeong is he at ?
house number 350 , yangsoo-ri , yangsoo-myeon , yangpyeong-goon .
he 's either in a pension or a cabin .
get him at whatever cost !
i 'm on my way , too , so just get him !
hey !
do you have a death wish ?
!
hey , what do you think you 're doing ?
you 've got navigation !
take me to yangpyeong , please !
what the heck ?
just get off !
you can charge whatever rate .
it 's a dire emergency !
please !
representative , we 're almost there .
just hurry .
please , hurry up .
hey , aren 't you gonna pay me ?
just wait a sec !
hey , lady !
representative , i 'm here .
yes .
yes .
there is a car in the garage , so he must be inside ...
writer lee ?
what happened ?
what 's wrong ?
answer me , lee go eun ! writer lee ? what happened ?
sweetheart ?
mr. kang hyun min , this is writer lee go eun .
mr. kang hyun min , i 'm from the world production .
you saw me the other day .
i 'm writer lee go eun .
how did she know that i 'm here ?
i know you 're in there .
open the door !
man , i 've seen it already .
i saw what you were doing with that actress . i can spread the news !
i mean it !
just open the door !
who in their right mind would open the door when hiding ?
yee-ha !
stop , stop !
i got you !
hold still !
you want to die ?
i 've got to get dressed !
if you don 't want to die , get up and lift up your hands . you , do you even know what kind of a gun that is ?
are you crazy ?
sure . i 'm completely crazy .
so you should get out of here if you want to live .
i 'd rather die than go out like this . lady , i have a wife and children .
i 'll give you back your money .
i don 't need it .
just spare me !
you just pay attention to the road !
yes , representative .
i 'm on my way with mr. kang hyun min .
where ?
what ?
where ?
writer lee ?
writer lee !
let go ! let go of it !
i can 't die like this !
ah !
hey !
just turn the volume down already !
what an idiot !
writer lee ! lee go eun , what happened ? !
let go !
i said , let go !
i can 't let you go !
threatening with an umbrella isn 't enough ?
let go !
if you don 't come with me , we can 't produce our drama !
what 's that got to do with me ?
do you really think you can make me come with you ?
just listen to me for once , then i 'll let you go .
what ?
i know that only you can make up your mind . that you call the shots .
but just keep this in mind .
i will try my best to show how seroius , how marvelous of an actor you are .
that 's why you 're just a rookie . all the writers write for me , the protagonist , the very kang hyun min .
understand ?
yes , it 's me .
how did it go with kang hyun min ?
we 're bringing him with us .
just wait for a little while .
great ! representative , even if neither of them get kang hyun min , empire productions has far better conditions .
that 's correct .
plus , representative oh is bringing kang hyun min right now .
well then , it 's pretty much decided .
then , the monday-tuesday slot for dramas in november shall go to the empire production 's elegant revenge 2 ...
what are you doing ?
pardon me .
how dare you barge in ? !
get out !
my name is kang hyun min .
i 'll do my best .
it 's not over yet .
i 'll turn the tables when they least expect it .
does living like that make you happy at all ?
in this world , those with power oppress the losers .
the broadcast schedule report is not available ?
bring me the bank statement with proof of funds for the production .
if you can only produce it by covering everything up with money , i don 't want that .
why don 't you step down ?
i mean , i 'm firing you .
leave .
episode 4 theartof war alright , i understand . representative ,
anthony did end up with the broadcasting slot . kang hyun min is with anthony right now . representative oh , i 'm truly sorry .
this is so not like hyun min ... why would he do this ? why would he ... ?
representative choi , do you think that that is a valid excuse ?
don 't ever expect to see me again .
representative , representative !
i didn 't mean ...
representative !
wow , seriously ...
i can 't win with you , representative .
you even sent people all the way there to track me down .
this is incredible !
at any rate , why did you change your mind all of a sudden ?
why did i change my mind ? from now on , i will write only for you , mr. kang hyun min . i will do my best to show in my writing what an earnest , praiseworthy actor you are .
that 's why you 're just a rookie . all the other writers are already doing it . writing for the protagonist , the star , me .
understand ?
by the way , did you mean it ?
what ?
that you will write for me .
that you will try to prove what an awesome actor i am .
do you really mean that ?
of course !
then listen .
if you don 't keep that promise , you 'll be in big trouble .
understand ?
yes .
i think you are mistaken .
my decision has always been the same .
i just went away to study the script .
there was no need for such a fuss .
so we were panicking for nothing .
i 'm a man of my word .
how can a man ever change his word ?
by the way , representative .
about that writer , what kind of a person is she ?
does she stay true to her words ? representative , as we had originally planned , let 's slate elegant revenge 2 for next year ...
it 's not over yet . director heo , go ahead with our preparations .
yes . anthony , just wait for a little bit .
i will turn the tables on you when you least expect it .
have you lost your mind completely ?
hey , kang hyun min ! no matter how good-looking you are , it doesn 't take much to lose your shine in this field .
if you 're going to call all the shots at your whim , do you even need me ?
are you suggesting that you don 't need me any more ?
that 's right .
to be honest , i don 't need you any more . whether i 'm good-looking or not , it 's thanks to me that you 're making money .
tell me , is it not ?
hyun min , what i mean is ... if that 's not what you mean , just shut your mouth .
also , since i procured this contract , i 'm not giving you a single penny for it .
got it ?
gwang soo , let 's go .
yes .
argh , that rascal ... !
hyung , each time i see this team , they just brighten my day .
aigoo , she plays coy ...
no matter how you slice it , when it comes to looks , our bit na is the best .
yes , her looks are the best .
bit na , is something wrong ?
i don 't know , i 'm just pissed .
why , why ?
even at our last concert , they wouldn 't let me say anything to the audience !
who the heck did that ? chief go , saying that if fans hear my voice , they will be completely put off .
that stupid chief go needs to learn a lesson .
what 's wrong with our bit na 's voice ?
it 's unique and sexy !
i don 't know !
bit na , you wanted a new car , right ?
why ?
i 'll buy you one .
a nice one .
are you serious ?
i 've got a big payment coming in .
then i 'll buy you one .
oppa ... i la la , i love you !
i suppose all your experience counts for something , seeing that you managed to bring in kang hyun min when the empire failed to do that .
you know , once i target an actor , i never let go .
i was wondering if you had lost your touch since you weren 't doing so well for 3 years .
so , what about the script ?
working on episode 5 now .
she 's done pretty well so far for someone without any publications or awards .
yes , indeed .
however , that ends here .
let her finish what she 's working on .
then switch to a more seasoned writer .
what ?
needless to say , the production will go live soon enough .
you can 't do that with a newbie like that .
i heard that all she 's got is some experience as an assistant to writer jeong . is that right ?
yes , that is correct , but ...
just get a different writer .
i 'm telling you this as the director of the broadcasting station .
representative , you 're back .
you 're back .
what 's all this ?
oh , representative , you 're back .
why are you in such a good mood ?
my mom is here .
representative , how have you been ? how have you been ? since my go eun wasn 't coming home for nights working on the script ,
i 've come to make sure that you 're feeding her well . oh , mother ( of go eun ) , you should come often .
the food is so good .
hadn 't had a home-cooked meal in a long time .
exactly , mother .
you should have some , too , representative .
i have eaten already .
oh , how fortunate that i packed some extra .
keep it in the fridge so that representative can have it later .
alright .
is my daughter doing alright ?
yes .
i trust you to take good care of her .
i shall excuse myself now .
have a safe trip back .
mom , you 're leaving already ?
yes , it 's already late for me to get ready for the evening rush .
i 'll see my mom to the bus station .
writer lee !
yes ?
i need to talk with you , why don 't you say goodbye now ?
yes ?
that 's right .
you just stay here and talk with him . i 'll get a taxi .
- bye , and please come again .
- thanks for the food !
what is it ?
i will cut to the chase .
in addition to the contract fee , i 'll give you a bonus , so 30 million won ( ~ $ 30k in usd ) in total .
yes ?
what does that mean ... ?
i would like you to step down now .
what do you mean by that ?
i 'm firing you .
so leave .
on what grounds ?
if you want to know , i 'll tell you .
i used you to get the investment , and now that i don 't need you , i 'm deserting you .
you asked me if i wanted to spend the rest of my life grilling mackerels .
seemed like your mackerel business is going well , that 's not a bad way of spending the rest of your life .
- you said , dreams exist to be fulfilled , not reminisced .
- i lied to convince you ... you can 't tell me to leave .
it 's my writing !
my baby !
i 'm sorry , but we 've already found a new writer .
what a scum .
yes , maybe not the world 's lowest , but the lowest scum in korea for sure .
so leave . i can 't !
i won 't !
i 'd rather die !
i 'll go to the drama department and tell them all about what a scum you are .
you would better not do that .
you 'll only face the reality of how pathetic you are .
what ?
it was the drama department that asked for a new writer .
hey , you there !
hey ! hey !
we 'll have to see when the first draft ....
what , what is this ?
i am writer lee go eun of " the morning of kyeongseong . "
so what ?
i know that i 'm being rude , but i just had to ask a question .
i just heard from the production company that they 're getting a new writer .
they said that a new writer was requested by the drama department . is that true ?
yes , it is .
i know i 'm a rookie , with no publication or broadcasting experience .
however , didn 't you give us the slot based on my writing ?
please , give me a chance .
do you have any idea where you are ?
director ...
you said it yourself .
that you have no publications or broadcasting experience . as the final person in charge , i 'm telling you as the director of the drama department .
we can 't let a rookie with no publication or broadcasting experience go out to war .
it is better off not to start a war when defeat is evident .
then , i 'm ... in a nutshell , as long as you 're not in the team , this war can be won .
if i 've made myself clear , go now .
if ... if i leave , can you guarantee that this war will be won ?
what ?
you probably can 't .
nobody knows for sure .
you can only excel if given an opportunity .
even if i have to leave the production , i just wanted to say this to you .
what the ... what a brat ... how insolent ...
she may be feisty , but she 's right .
huh , what ?
yes ?
what did you just say ?
no , just rambling . representative , are you asleep ?
speak .
writer lee go eun ... will she be alright ?
she seemed to be in a lot of shock .
forget about it and just sleep .
i 'm trying , but i can 't sleep .
what did i tell you ?
to make a drama ...
one must leave even if it is his own father .
yes , so keep that in mind and sleep .
tomorrow , we 'll get the contract with kang hyun min ready .
yes .
aunty , can you hurry up a bit ?
alright !
what are you doing ?
gwang soo , stop .
you 're here .
i told you to work out , not to show yourself off working out .
they 're all dying to see me though .
all these girls have come here to see this face and this body .
i guess it doesn 't hurt to sign the contract among flowers .
the terms are as we had discussed before . as soon as you sign the contract , you 'll get 2 billion won in 15 days , all in one lump sum .
gwang soo , my stamp .
let 's break a leg !
just deposit the money within the set time .
what do you mean ?
you can 't issue a certificate of broadcasting slot ?
we 've already signed a contract with kang hyun min , and changed the writer . you can 't issue a certificate of broadcasting slot ? we 've already signed a contract with kang hyun min , and changed the writer .
why can 't you issue us a certificate when you 've already given us the slot ?
who says i 'm not issuing you one ?
bring me the bank statement that has the funds for this production .
what ?
not something you just type up on word , but an actual bank book that shows the money .
director ...
you know it , too .
how many drama productions bite off more than they can chew , and end up in a wreck with insufficient funds .
that hurts the reputation of the broadcasting station as well !
once you give me the certificate , i get the investment from japan .
not just a couple billion , but 10 billion !
well then , show me the bank book with that 10 billion .
director ...
a certificate of a broadcasting slot comes with my official seal to represent the broadcasting station .
if you want my seal , show me the money first .
we have to deposit the 2 billion for kang hyun min , too . what now ?
if he doesn 't get that 2 billion , he 'll go with someone else for sure .
then , the whole drama is ..
what if we explained our situation to the japanese sponsor ?
i 've already contacted the person in charge , it 's the same story .
an official document of the broadcasting schedule .
what the s broadcasting director wants is not bank books .
here , take a shot .
- cheers - thanks for your hard work .
i heard that they 're switching the writer for " morning of kyeongseong . "
that lee go eun , who wrote the synopsis , came to the director and made a scene , i heard .
but it 's a new genre we 've not done before .
how much better could an experienced writer be ?
in the end , it is up to the production skills of representative kim of the world production .
and we all know that recently , many production companies start shooting , then run out of money , and end up not paying the actors and the filming crew .
we 've seen so many cases like that .
if you 're giving the slot to representative kim , it would be good to make sure about the funding situation .
i know , i already told anthony about securing the funds .
you have a visitor .
good evening .
hey , representative kim !
what brings you here ?
i came here to get dinner , and i heard that you were here , so i 've come to say hi .
oh , i see . come in , come in .
yes .
i was thinking about what you said earlier today , director .
and i admit that i was in the wrong .
as you had requested , i will bring you a bank book showing the funds and also draw up a budget plan .
of course , that you should .
here , have a drink .
huh ?
what are you doing outside ?
i have a favor to ask , director .
a favor ?
i heard that you play golf in nonhyun-dong lately ... give me the combination of your locker , and i 'll prepare something for you by tomorrow .
representative kim ...
it 's just a token of my appreciation .
please take it .
appreciation for what ?
the certificate of broadcasting slot .
hey , anthony , are you still doing this crap ?
what about you , director ?
what ? last year , on march 24 and september 13 , kj production sent you some token appreciations .
watch your words .
i thought they were just rumors .
that 's right . totally senseless rumors .
got it ?
yes , i 'm sure .
alright .
oh , would you check if my car is parked ok outside ?
it 's black , and the number is 8911 .
yes , i shall , director .
are you still doing things this way ?
what ... do you mean ?
i guess people never change .
since i had a drink , i 'll just say one thing as a man .
representative kim , i ... hate you . ( dropping the honorifics )
i especially hate those dirty , shameless ways of darkness of how you do your business .
yes , those dirty , shameless ways of darkness are exactly how i 've been doing my business , and i 'll continue to do so .
now , think about it .
how much longer do you think you 'll be in the drama department , chief producer nam ?
the way i see it , with all the promotions , 5 years at best ?
do you even have a plan for your retirement ?
that 's why you 're such a low jerk , bastard .
thank you .
i 'm paying for my own drinks .
have you looked into the things i asked you about ?
oh , that ?
i 've found a few after some internal investigation .
just as i told you , right ?
what would you like me to do ?
kill him .
so that he 'll never come near this field ...
ajumma , another bottle of soju .
- here , another bottle .
- thanks .
- aunty , we 'd like another grilled mackerel .
- yes . yes , coming !
hey , what are you doing here ?
because they liked my script so much , i 'm on vacation .
well then , hurry up and grill some mackerels .
can 't you see how busy we are ?
yes , madame kang . ( madame tenacity )
the money ?
it will be withdrawn from the bank in 30 minutes .
ohhyung golf course in nonhyun-dong .
director moon 's locker number and combination .
8911 ?
8911 ... no , put it in your mouth and swallow it .
what ? we can 't leave any trace behind unless they cut our guts open .
get the money and deliver it right away .
i 'll go get the certificate of broadcasting slot .
yes , i got it .
where did they all go with the door open ?
writer lee ...
i just came to get my stuff ...
what is that ? yes ? oh , it 's nothing .
well , you know , miss writer , it is inevitable for the production to start , so ... it just happens this way .
i guess " the morning of kyeongseong " will be the inaugural work of world production .
yes .
break a leg .
thank you .
and the writer ?
still in search for a decent experienced one .
good .
alright , you may leave .
well , have a good day . one of my assistants just stopped by the ohhyung golf course in nonhyun-dong , and says that it looks really nice , perhaps they 've renovated the interior .
you should go check it out .
so , has the funding issue been resolved ?
yes , he got the money from a japanese sponsor .
there 's nothing to worry .
congratulations .
wow , representative kim has done it in the end !
how impressive .
right ?
in that dirty way .
it 's all thanks to your concerns .
do you know how many hard-working professionals in this field fall in despair because of people like you ?
yes , i 'm well aware of them .
i 'm one of those professionals in this field as well .
excuse me .
yes , director .
hey , you bastard .
is this a joke ?
what ?
what are you talking about ?
how dare you make a fool of me ?
that 's not possible .
why would the money be missing ?
hello , hello !
direc ...... producer joo , what happened ?
did you make the delivery ?
well , thatis ...
representative ...
hurry up and tell me !
writer lee go eun has hid the money bag , so i couldn 't even leave the office .
what ?
representative .
where did you put it ? you were acting as though everything will go smoothly if i wasn 't on the team , but in reality , you had to use such dirty means !
it doesn 't matter .
why doesn 't it matter ?
i didn 't leave just so you could do this !
you left on your own . just give it up .
where is that money ? the money is for producing the drama , not for lobbying with bribes like that .
you don 't know anything , stay out of it .
then explain it then .
there 's no time for that .
just tell me , where is that money ?
i won 't say a word until you convince me completely .
without that money , this drama won 't happen .
are you happy now ? your writing will not be broadcast . if you have to cover everything up with money to produce it ,
i don 't need it .
i 'm the original writer ,
forget about it then .
producer joo .
yes .
when , and how did she hide it ? while i was away for a sec , at least she didn 't leave this place . umm , representative , the golf putting range closes in 30 minutes .
miss writer , representative isn 't doing this because he wants to .
don 't just stand there like that , and say something !
won 't you ?
move .
why should i move ?
i said move !
aren 't you getting out of the way ? you keep ignoring me , you 'd better get a lawyer . even if you get the production going with bribes ,
i will make sure that it doesn 't get aired !
sue all you want .
you 'll be watching my drama as you wait for the proceeding .
open it !
open it !
hey !
man , i keep missing the ball ! it 's not just the balls i 'm missing . my arms and legs feel like they 're not mine .
yes , it 's me , director .
there was a slight accident on our part , but i 'm just calling you now to tell you that i delivered it myself .
yes , sorry .
yes .
you 've still got something to say ?
you !
you know what ?
what ?
what an eeevil ( slurred speech as she 's drunk ) nasty , dirty , jerk you are ?
do you know what a cold-blooded , cruel , infernal scum you are ?
you called me to ask me that ?
sure , i 'll give you my answer .
i am aware of it . more than anybody in the world . living like that , are you happy ?
living stupidly like you , how is that ?
what about you living so stupidly , being trampled and torn apart ?
i am not unhappy .
because , despite the world being dirty like you , i am living .
your kind doesn 't understand the world .
the world has been very dirty from the beginning . by fair means or foul , emerging victorious through force , and dominating the losers is the world .
i am going to triumph in this filthy world .
you are going to fall .
there 's something else you don 't know .
in my mind now , to be living here is hell .
hyung , you 're not coming back tonight ?
probably not .
hyung , it 's a guest .
guest ?
apologies for coming so late at night .
i don 't know if you 've heard but i won 't be able to keep my promise .
i 'm really thankful that you liked my work , but for unavoidable circumstances , i had to quit .
what ?
so are they changing the writer ?
you got fired then .
yes .
i got fired . i got fired because i don 't have any experience .
at any rate , although i won 't be working on it any more , the script still means a lot to me .
please , treat that script like a child that has lost its mother until the very end and fulfill your role with affection .
so ?
did you come to me to get you unfired ?
no , i didn 't come for that at all .
i just ...
but , what do you mean by " no ? " you tried everywhere else , it didn 't work , so you 've come here , pretending to be nice , asking me to help you , right ? asking me to help you , right ?
no , i 'm not like that .
it 's no use .
come to think of it , i was a bit nervous about the writer being a rookie .
this is for the best .
don 't get your heart broken over this . it 's the nature of this field .
that 's not it !
what the heck ?
i put my everything at stake for my " the morning of kyeongseong . "
though i 'm leaving , i want you all to take it seriously with affection .
is that so hard , you idiots ?
! is she crazy ?
what are you doing ?
drag her out of here .
yes . leave .
you morons !
- you 're so drunk .
- it 's mine !
- what 's yours ?
- just go !
- let go of me !
you can 't just get drunk and barge in like that . living like that , does it make you happy ?
screenwriter : lee go eun
hey , unni !
hey , watch your driving !
that was close .
wow , you 're pretty .
- noonim , how old are you ?
- how old are you ?
- unni , you see , we 're hungry ...
- aiiiiiish .... hey , get out all you 've got . hey , get out all you 've got .
stop staring like that and give us your money !
ah well , can 't be helped .
good evening , police officer . good evening , police officer .
i 'm on the backstreet by hyundai villa in cheongdam-dong .
three drunk highschoolers are trying to do something to another drunk woman .
oh , i 'm just a civilian citizen .
one that pays a lot of taxes .
please dispatch someone here quick . thanks !
well ...
i 'm ... really in a bad mood tonight ...
so .. could you guys just ... leave me alone ?
wow , did i just hear that right ?
hey , do you want to die ?
you 'd better let go of me .
honestly ...
what is she ?
you highschool brats !
aren 't you supposed to be studying ?
dang , i should have avoided her eyes .
at any rate , is she really a writer ?
she 's like a gangster !
how scary .
jesus christ !
yes ?
well , do you know lee go eun ?
so if i do ?
this is gangnam police department . i understand that she was drunk , but what kind of a lady beats up three kids like that by herself ?
she passed out once she got here , and we didn 't know who to contact .
we checked her recent call history , and saw that she had made several calls to you .
at any rate , what is your relationship to her ?
she put you down as " youndeungpo crazy dog " on her contacts list .
so i got curious .
three million won ( ~ $ 3k usd ) for a settlement isn 't too bad .
is it ok if she spends the night here ?
huh ?
umm ..
hey hey ! today , on the olympic expressway in seoul , a drunk truck driver crashed his truck and killed one person .
at the time of the accident , the blood alcohol content of truck driver kim had exceeded the level of 0.1 % , which means his license will be suspended .
the police are still investigating the exact circumstances of the accident , and plan to charge truck driver kim with dui .
on another note , early this morning , the director of the drama department of a certain broadcasting station , moon , was arrested without a warrant .
it has been announced that moon is suspected of charges of accepting bribes related to privileges associated with drama broadcasting slots .
the police announced that they will investigate the matters further and will seek strict corrective measures .
additional investigations are still going on .
this news was brought to you by mbs , kim so yeon .
does seeing someone get arrested give you back some senses ?
huh ?
you should thank the person who paid your settlement money . you may go .
settlement money ?
who ? that " youngdeungpo crazy dog " took care of everything .
... drama department of a certain broadcasting station , moon , was arrested without a warrant .
... announced that he is suspected of accepting bribes privileges associated with broadcasting slots ....
thanks for the good news , sunbaenim .
it 's rather surprising that the culprit behind all this is not on the list .
we just got the search warrant , so we 're going through all his office , house , and car .
one of those places should have it .
there 's one more place to check .
one more place ?
a personal locker at ohhyung golf course in nonhyun-dong .
personal locker ?
it is a preferred venue for one of the bribe donors .
yes .
keep up with your good work .
you 've caused director moon to fall in order to get to anthony ? director moon will probably confess everything anyway , but once the money bag is found , that 's the moment of doom for anthony .
then , that broadcasting slot goes back to null .
schedule a meeting for tomorrow morning .
yes . yes .
i like the news today .
yes .
i understand .
the search warrant is out .
as soon as we get there , crack the door open and get the evidence right away .
ah , aish .
get the tools !
this way !
there 's a guy that 's just leaving the building .
get him ! yes , i understand .
this morning , the director of the drama department of a broadcasting station , moon , was arrested .
moon is suspected of charges of receiving bribes for privileges regarding broadcasting slots .
isn 't he from the broadcasting station for your drama ?
is your drama going to be ok when someone big like him gets arrested ?
i think it 'll be ... ok .
seriously .
he should have just eaten grilled mackerels instead of stuffing his guts with other people 's money .
it 's me , producer joo . i just saw the news , is that money ok ?
oh , it was close .
fortunately , representative saw the news and took immediate action , so it 's all safe .
it was really close . we were so lucky .
then , there 's no problem with the drama ?
well , i 'm not sure , for the moment ...
hello .
miss writer , i 'm sorry , but i have to go to a meeting now .
if anything changes or gets decided , i 'll contact you .
now that the director has been arrested , empire will try to shake up the broadcasting schedule .
how are things at empire ?
they submitted the synopsis of " elegant revenge 2 " of writer jeong yesterday through assistant director kim .
i heard that the synopsis is 10 pages long .
you can get a slot even without a synopsis , and this is " elegant revenge 2 . "
what is writer jeong hong joo doing ?
working on the script for the first two episodes .
notify me as soon as the first drafts are done .
who are the potential candidates for the next director of s broadcasting ? based on the accomplishments from last year and the first half of this year , assistant director park is most likely .
have you eaten yet ?
he started out as an open recruit , and has the reputation of being a nice person with good skills among the producers , so many directors support him .
however , based on school ties , some predict that assistant director kim , who went to the same school as the president of s broadcasting , will be the one .
also , assistant director kim 's wife is known for her influence .
she even moved their family residence so that their children would go to the same school as the president 's .
that says a lot .
assistant director kim ....
it was empire 's oh jin wan that caused the fall of director moon .
what ?
yesterday , the synopsis of writer jeong was given to a.d. kim , and director moon was arrested this morning .
to plan an arrest without a warrant the very day of today ... means that they predicted that we 'd bribe director moon .
you mean , the person who reported director moon to the authorities is ...
he wanted to get me arrested .
the decision of choosing a new director is up to the president .
the most likely candidate is a.d. kim .
notify me as soon as s broadcasting makes the announcement of the personnel changes tomorrow .
yes .
you all go home .
yes .
the personnel changes have been announced .
[ announcements from the human resources department ]
- what is this ?
- what does this mean ?
the director is coming !
good morning .
well done .
let me count on your assistance .
i expect much guidance from you all .
let 's take our seats .
we would like to turn this unfortunate event around and use it as a trigger to introduce a revolutionary change in the drama department of s broadcasting .
and i believe that the priority is to ensure that we produce high quality dramas , work with actors loved by the public , and keep the production environment clean and transparent .
consequently , the broadcasting schedule for november determined by the previous director is going to be totally revamped .
that is all .
i don 't accept congratulatory messages .
i know how you hate me the most . i 've been doing business using the dirty , shameless ways of darkness that you hate so much , and i know how you think of me as a morally devoid person .
however , director , please give me this one chance .
i beg of you .
just one chance ?
however , that one chance might allow someone like you to control this whole field of dramas .
i 've decided against it .
i won 't change my mind .
please leave .
- what 's going to happen to our slot ?
hurry ! that position should have been yours , assistant director .
show him who 's really in power in this department .
you 're not my superior !
i will get my work published and proudly present my name , lee go eun on the script .
we 'll reinstate writer lee go eun .
no one would write " the morning of kyeongseong " better than her .
it 's not over yet !
why don 't you just cancel your contract ?
- i 'll help you with that .
- this is all for our drama .
you mean , your drama . the weapon with which anthony , king of dramas , will take back his realm .
i 'll wait for you .
just don 't take too long to return .
episode 6 the division in front of enemies this is your writing contract . well , then ... sign here .
leave now . move ! - get out of my way !
- what are you guys doing ? let go . i said to move !
no , lee go eun !
-what is this ? !
drag him out of here !
you can 't sign !
fine , i 'll give you what you want .
i will leave its genre the same as the current one , noir .
and without the present day 's scene , i will keep the first episode same as your draft !
writer , it 's a lie .
just go ahead and sign .
what 's this ?
drag him out of here !
wait just a minute !
go on .
i 'll take out the supervisor too .
writer lee , it isn 't once or twice that he 's fooled you !
because he 's desperate , he 's lying to get what he wants .
no , that 's not the case . you know how anthony works , it 's all the same as three years ago !
no , lee go eun ! you 'd better be prepared for the law suit , because i 'll never lose it to you .
don 't trouble yourself about it .
you made a good decision .
yes .
we should go eat .
there is a really great japanese restaurant nearby .
next time . today i have another engagement .
ah , yes . if you were thinking of signing from the start , what was your reason for calling me ?
do you know what you just did ?
you just tore my drama , no , my life to pieces .
didn 't know i was such an important person .
what ?
! why not ?
you get to do whatever you want to do but i can 't do what i want to do ?
that 's why i said we 'd do without the melodrama as a noir , without a supervisor , whatever you wanted !
exactly , so fulfill all those promises as you said .
what does that mean ?
director , you are amazing .
in the end , you really defeated anthony .
what did i say .
the one who laughs in the end is the winner .
director , what 's the matter ?
what ?
what did you just say ?
i didn 't sign .
lee go eun !
next time ... so the reason you came here , was to get what you want under the pretext of signing ?
yes , so make sure you definitely keep your promises .
since i have it recorded here .
geez , where did you learn to do that ?
who do you think ? from you , representative .
what ?
why are you so surprised ?
like an amateur ...
i heard this is what they usually do in the field .
do you have confidence you can do it ?
i 'm asking if you can take responsibility for your decision .
what are you trying to say ? if in november we were to completely fail , the sun will shine as if nothing 's happened .
but you and i will be finished . i know , that it 's not just you and i , but all the people involved in this work .
we will either succeed or fail solely on my decision .
that 's why i can 't give up .
we will win .
are you sure you can win ?
i mean , if you 're sure what 's the chance ( % ) of winning ?
you 've always told me , " believe in me . "
this time , representative , it 's your turn to believe in me .
what is this ?
this is the key for that writing space you wanted .
my own writing place ?
so this is something you prepared ?
you thought i 'd make you write in that tiny place forever ?
we must win this war .
that rascal .
here .
over this way .
over this way .
did anyone see a cutter knifer here ?
what ?
on that brick pillar , you shouldn 't paint with white !
not that one , but over there , please paint there .
everyone , enjoy your meal .
did you know ?
that the representative picked this place ?
yes .
you already knew ?
yes .
- so only i didn 't know ?
! i found the place .
really ?
deposit is 5 million won ( $ 5,000 ) and monthly rent fee is 300,000 won ( $ 300 ) . deposit is 5 million won ( $ 5,000 ) and monthly rent fee is 300,000 won ( $ 300 ) .
where should we put this ?
just put it anywhere over here .
cheers .
-cheers !
finally , writer lee gets her own writing space !
it was with everyone 's help .
to be honest , i never imagined director would ever get you your own place ! though director seems like a vicious man from the outside , he 's not like that on the inside .
but hyung , what kind of director will come ?
who knows ?
that ... is not going to be easy .
why ?
i think director kim hyun min would be good for " morning in kyeongseong . "
we 've done other works together , too .
you see , director kim is , uh .... difficult to get , it seems he 's already working on another piece .
then what about director jeong ?
ah director jeong !
.. will also be difficult .
difficult ?
uh , that 's because ...
why ?
do you possibly have another director in mind ?
no , it 's not like that !
just wait a little longer , we 're doing our best to convince ...
convince ?
there was a meeting of the regular pds that caused a problem with assigning a director for the drama .
i will never work with that jerk , anthony .
when he was kicked out of this field , everybody applauded in celebration !
i still get upset whenever i think about the way he humiliated me ! and now , you expect me to work with him ?
yes , i understand your point . but what 's important is that this " morning of kyeongseong " is not just anthony kim 's drama , but a drama of our s broadcasting . do you understand ?
you 're the one who 'd been insisting , director , that the broadcasting stations should not work with scum like him !
it 's not like he 's the representative of empire , he 's just a representative of a rookie third-rate ...
third rate ? !
director kim , your " paradise lost " had hit the rating of 35.9 % .
also , director jeong and director yoon , you all had big hits after working with me and became representative directors of s broadcasting .
how can you , after achieving your current fame thanks to me , call me a third-rate producer ?
! you call that fame ?
it was humiliation !
you were ruling the shooting sites as if you were the director .
i won 't take that again .
i took action only because you weren 't a good leader !
what ?
are you talking down to me ?
what do you think you are doing ?
this is a statement of the position of the regular pds . we 'd like to make it clear to you that every one of us , pds of s broadcasting ,
statement of refusal to work refuses to direct anthony 's production , " morning of kyeongseong . "
let 's get out of here . you normally persist with your own decisions , why are you backing down this time ?
are you trying to get back at me ?
get back at you ?
get back at me for having my way with the slot .
representative kim ...
do you judge all the people of the world by your own standards alone ?
just answer my question . i 'm the director of the drama department . regardless of whether i like the slot decision or not , once it has been decided ,
i have also put my life on the line for this drama .
happy now ?
oh , yeah ... and also ...
does it ever occur to you that your twisted ways of doing business cost you the trust of our pd 's ?
i trust viewership ratings more than people .
also , i 'm one of .. no , more than anyone , have put my life on the line for " morning of kyeongseong . "
if we can 't find one internally , then ...
i 'll bring a seasoned veteran director from outside .
a seasoned veteran ?
like who ?
i think the situation will be the same outside , too .
this morning i saw this coming and i thought of someone .
director goo ?
yeah .
if the internal directors refuse to work with us , why not work with freelancers like director goo ?
he hasn 't done anything in a while , but he is a tried and true veteran .
he was the best at one point , with four dramas that had over 30 % in viewership rating ...
but ... he 's a goner now .
goner ?
five years ago , when he left the field , he retired completely and lives out in the countryside .
retired ?
why ?
i don 't know the specifics , but ... there are rumors that suggest that he 's become an alcoholic .
well ...
i 've also heard that he 's become a dog seller in some remote place .
a dog seller ?
no way .
director goo young mok is a serious alcoholic who can 't even function as a person .
no way he can direct again .
no , that 's something you have to create .
also , wasn 't it you who had produced the last drama of director goo ?
you should know very well what a great director he is , then .
listen to me .
given our current situation , the best person for the job of directing " morning of kyeongseong " is director goo young mok .
no one else will do . we 've asked other external directors whose schedules are compatible , but they all said no .
it takes a dog to recognize a dog .
director ...
long time , no see ' cheongdamdong 's crazy dog . '
i don 't live in cheongdamdong any more .
a dog is a dog no matter where he lives .
come inside .
what brings you all the way here ?
can 't just be to have a drink with me .
i want you to come with me to seoul .
seoul ?
that 's a real dog mess there .
what are you scheming ?
i want you to direct a drama .
drama ?
why ?
is there no one willing to direct for you ?
after not seeing you for awhile , you 're still making me laugh .
stop wasting your effort and go back .
i was done directing dramas 5 years ago .
that 's when my life ended , too .
first day of broadcasting is november 5th , 20 episodes , period piece .
my contact information is included , so give me a call after you read it .
crazy bast * * * .
you 're ruining my drink , get lost !
you 've been drinking for 5 years , haven 't you had enough ?
you 're the one that had said , the place for me to breathe and to stop breathing is the shooting site .
there 's not much time .
you have to give me a decision within 3 days .
get out !
before i stick the dogs on you !
representative oh .
yes , chairman .
explain it to me .
i don 't know what you mean ... the japanese investor , the broadcasting slot !
how much longer are you going to let anthony have his way like that ?
i 'm sorry .
a hound that had been loyal to its master bites the master .
that guy ... what should we do about him ?
we must catch him .
no ...
catch him and kill him .
before he finishes sharpening his fangs in preparation of revenge .
if left alone , he 's going to attack me with those fangs .
i understand .
you 'd better make sure that you do it right this time .
there are so many hounds out there to replace you .
let 's go .
it 's been awhile .
yes . yes .
once more ... i 'll need your help .
when do you have time ?
hello everyone !
our guest today is south korea 's most popular , handsome guy , the prince in the drama industry . the top star , everyone who is it ?
kang hyun min !
korea 's best top star , kang hyun min , come on out !
wow , seriously , your popularity is as high as the sky , mr. kang hyun min .
oh , thank you .
everybody , as you see kang hyun min in person , how do you feel ?
he 's so hot !
- he 's so handsome !
they say you are very good looking .
thank you .
when i see you here , seriously , the word " sculpture-like handsome guy " used to describe you isn 't exaggerated .
oh , you overpraised me .
thank you .
wow , you 're even humble .
indeed , you 're the top actor .
yes , yes , yes .
how do you feel about all these people coming out to see you ?
oh , well , of course , i 'm very thankful .
is that so ?
yes , i 'm so grateful .
people who love kang hyun min , scream !
thank you so much .
thank you , thank you .
yes , yes .
kang hyun min ssi , i don 't think we can do an interview here !
i agree .
let 's go inside and do the interview .
shall we ?
because , in this crowd ... i just don 't think it 's possible .
i understand .
okay , everyone !
we 'll be going in now .
see you guys later !
look outside .
all your loving fans are still outside .
your popularity is incredible !
thank you .
so , i heard you 're shooting a new drama .
yes .
the drama 's called , ' morning of kyeongseong ' and i am playing the role as ' kim woo jin . '
'morning of kyeongseong ?
' wow , the title 's very impressive .
so , is there a reason why you chose this drama over others ?
well , let 's see ...
reading the script made my whole body shudder .
it gave you the shudders ?
i thought this was one drama i should never pass on .
i see ... reading the script gave you the chills .
i 'm really looking forward to seeing this drama .
but , on another note ...
yes ?
there 's a rumor that you 're being paid the most among all actors in the country .
that 's right isn 't it ?
that ... is not true . when i select a drama
i do not ever take into account how much i get paid .
i leave all that to my manager so , in truth , i have no idea how much i make .
a drama is a work of art .
i believe that excessive thought of money ... can be fatal to an actor .
wow , ' excessive thought of money can be fatal to an actor ?
' you are truly a great actor ....
what 's wrong ?
no matter how much i think about it , i 'm still angry .
does it even make sense that a drama is not made melo ?
this drama seems better that it 's not melo .
darling , do you think i like melo dramas ?
melo is money ... money !
it has to be melo so people love the drama , and that 's exactly how i get cf offers !
ah , that 's right , the director can change that .
the director can change it towards a more melo drama .
what ?
who 's our film director , kwang soo ?
who knows ?
has it not been decided yet ?
call anthony and find out .
right now .
who is it ?
who are you dating ?
it 's ...
- it 's ...
- who ?
!
you ' one night ' viewers . ( this show )
hello ?
you bastard !
director goo ?
yes , you piece of trash .
did you read the script ?
shut up , you dog !
please calm down ... no matter how much i think about it , i 'm too pissed off to calm down .
why did you just bring me such an impressive script now !
are you listening to what i 'm saying ?
you rotton excuse of a human being .
yes , i 'm listening .
where are you right now ? i 'll be there as soon as the sun 's up tomorrow , so you all better be prepared !
what is going on that we 're meeting so early ?
i 'm a bit worried ...
good morning !
now , everyone say hello to ...
director goo young mok , who will be directing ' morning of kyeongseong . '
it 's nice to meet you gentlemen .
i am goo young mok .
what are you doing not applauding ?
who 's that dummy over there ?
oh , i 'm a new script writer , but not a dummy , director ...
my name is lee go eun .
oh ?
so you 're lee go eun .
you also look like a something ' alright .
i look forward to working with you !
welcome to the team , director !
let 's all do well .
welcome !
hello , director !
oh , it 's been too long .
hello , director !
nice to see you again !
oh !
sunbae-nim !
hello , sunbae-nim !
oh , how long has it been ?
have you guys been well ?
yes , yes . are you excited now that we 're in some real chaos ,
crazy dog ?
could you please not call me ' crazy dog ' anymore ?
drop the pretense , you punk .
wow , how long has it been ?
why are you so excited ?
this is it , isn 't it ?
stop your fussing , you punk .
they 're here .
aigo . director !
welcome back , director !
it 's been a very long time !
so you 're the broadcasting director dog now ?
ah , yes .
you 're still the same , director goo .
speaking of which , you 're still here ?
ah , director ... please show me your enthusiasm , just like you did when i first entered the company .
please take good care of the show .
ask that to the rating .
both you and i will die or live depending on that number .
it 's this way .
this is the place .
writer lee ?
nice to see you !
hello , director !
hello !
director of photography !
wow , how long has it been !
?
this is the lighting manager .
wow ... how long has it been ?
this is the director of photography .
this set is impressive !
do you think ...
director goo won 't have problems ?
there has to be problems .
pardon ?
we supported anthony to get his time slot and we now have some power ... now , we must take director nam down . wouldn 't it be easy to take director nam down , if his first drama , as the broadcasting director , fails ?
how do you feel ?
i 'm so excited !
it makes my heart flutter that my own script will be made into a real drama !
keep that up with your script , too .
yes , director .
we should have dinner together with the team .
i 'll make a reservation at a restaurant near the company .
i 'm already meeting someone tonight .
director goo is a charming person .
yes , yes he is .
but don 't like him too much .
there 's no such thing as a conflictless drama , but there 's no such thing as a conflictless set either .
aigo , director !
how do you do , director ?
i 'm kang hyun min .
i see , you 're hyun min .
rascal , you are indeed handsome .
please make me look good on camera , too .
okay .
sit down , sit down .
i can 't tell you how glad we are that you are here , director .
i would especially like to talk to you about the genre of noir regarding this drama .
what are your thoughts on the genre ?
that 's what i like about it .
the fact that it is a fresh genre without the cheesy melancholy .
that 's why it really suited me .
that 's right .
you 're even good at selecting a good project ... i see why you 've become such a star , hyun min .
yes . but even though i think that it 's okay , in general wouldn 't it be good to have a little bit of melo [ drama ] in it ?
don 't pay any attention to that anthony-like nonsense !
no , no , i don 't .
especially the ending scene of episode 1 ... is so full of the genre , it 's awesome !
exactly !
starting with the ending of episode 1 , we 're going to overwhelm the screen ! hyun min , your sharp eyes and your sculptured body will be captured by 12 cameras , action !
explode !
jump into the sea !
flames of fire everywhere . splashes of water can be heard as you swim across the tall waves .
close in on the sharp eyes of kim jin woo , and then ...
cut ! director , this is amazing !
the best scene ever in korean drama history !
what 's even more impressive is that we 're doing it for real without computer graphics .
gwang soo !
by the way , you do know how to swim , right ?
of course . i 've been training just in case .
do you know how to swim in the sea ?
excuse me ? the sea ? even though the weather is not ideal , it 's not winter yet , so the sea should be okay .
you can do it , right ?
eh ?
yes .
very good .
we should do this as we had originally planned , - yes .
and if we need more , we can talk later as they come up .
- yes .
you go and show him .
what ?
you should look at this .
director goo said to redo the budget for episode 1 according to this ...
where is director goo now ? five years is a long time , but " morning of kyeongseong " has given me hope out of that despair . i , goo young mok , will treat it as if it were my last drama , and leave my old , idle ways of life and pathetic attitude behind .
i will put my very best into this project ! therefore , this project will be shot at a huge scale to match the quality it deserves , and we have a long , arduous journey ahead of us .
everybody , are you ready ?
!
yes !
though it 's not alcohol , let 's have a toast .
for " morning of kyeongseong ! "
cheers !
oh , representative kim , good to see you .
have a seat . before that , let 's talk outside .
what ?
what do you want to say ?
what is this ?
what about this ?
you 're asking why ? twelve cameras , a helicopter , 1,200 extras , the costs for actors , costumes , and food for filming for 5 days , and even an exploding cruise !
you want to spend over a 1 billion won ( ~ $ 1million ) for just the last 5 minutes of episode 1 , are you for real ?
yeah , and so ?
what about it ?
there 's no way we can do that .
can 't do it ?
yes , can 't do it .
i want to pour every last drop of my passion into this , why can 't we do it ?
! why should i burn my money to fuel your passion , director ?
this is the most important scene of this drama ! even so , over a billion won for just 5 minutes is too much . i 'm preparing a team that can work with a reasonable budget , so work something out with them .
and if i can 't do that ?
then i will be forced to use my last resort .
what 's that ?
you 're saying you will fire me ?
if you won 't change your mind , then , yes , i 'll fire you .
don 't play around .
you may be the one who brought me on board , but you can 't kick me off so easily .
that sounds fun .
oh it would be very fun .
really , what 's your personal problem ?
if people don 't do what you want , you threaten to fire them .
if you don 't know , but out since it 's not your concern .
representative !
find another director .
i already told you .
there is no one else .
find one !
even if you have to search the whole country , or the whole world !
if there isn 't anyone , create someone !
yes , mr. kang hyun min .
where ?
has it been 3 years ? enough with the formalities , you 're the representative of the empire production .
but who is it this time ?
the one you want to teach a lesson ?
it 's someone you also know very well .
if it 's someone i know very well , who is it ?
kang hyun min .
actor kang hyun min ?
i 'm counting on your help .
just like when you helped with bringing down anthony with the media reports 3 years ago .
just like bringing down anthony 3 years ago , huh ?
anyhow , why is kang hyun min your target ?
if i can 't cut off the head of the enemy , i shall cut off his hand that wields the sword .
me , go in the sea ?
even in the winter ?
does this make any sense ?
what kind of a director is he ?
he needs to learn to respect his actors .
what if , while shooting the ending of episode 1 , something goes wrong like that ?
what about the rest of the drama ? i 'm irreplaceable for this whole business !
writer , are you listening to what i 'm saying ?
well , can 't you just go along and do it ?
no way ! they want to dunk me , kang hyun min , the superstar , into the cold winter sea !
just do it ?
do you even know what the sea temperature is today ?
i even looked it up .
it 's 6c ( 43f ) !
six degrees ! i can 't do this .
no , i choose not to !
you call yourself an actor , but the reason why you won 't do it is because it 's cold ?
yes , it 's because it 's cold !
i can tolerate a lot of things , but not cold !
never !
suck it up !
i refuse to suck it up .
cut out that ending scene of episode 1 .
what 's that ?
or fix it so i won 't have to swim .
i 've got plenty of other mind-wrecking things right now , do you have to add to that , kang hyun min ?
you promised .
that you would write for me .
how is that promise related to this issue ?
no matter what , i won 't go in the sea . either , talk director goo out of it , or change the script .
i 'm leaving .
you 're implying you 'll fire me ?
if you don 't change your mind , then , yes , i 'll fire you .
what is this ?
this is the budget list of episode 1 based on the wishes of director goo .
and so ?
so ? !
it can 't be produced this way !
i 'm going to change the director .
have you tried reasoning ?
he 's very stubborn .
isn 't persuasion one of the skills of a producer ?
right ? if persuasion doesn 't work , then you should increase the budget .
so you 're a person without skill , producer kim .
in such a circumstance , don 't we have to change the producer instead of changing the director ?
director !
representative kim ...
right now all the directors said that they can 't shoot a drama with you .
in such a case , what do you think will be our choice as a broadcasting station ? representative kim , if you have no skills , quit .
we will sign a contract with director goo directly and make this drama on our own .
this person ...
writer lee ...
didn 't director goo contact you perhaps ?
he didn 't .
and the representative ?
well , that ... he went to the broadcasting station .
it seems like he 'll tell them that he 's going to fire director goo .
writer lee ...
taxi !
you can come in .
you were looking for me ?
ah , yes .
yes , director nam .
about " morning of kyeongseong ... " there is a possibility that we will be producing it ourselves , so please make preparations for that .
but ...
in-house production ?
yes .
yes ?
director , someone is here to see you .
okay .
oh , writer lee .
how ... is the script-writing going well ?
yes .
as you may know , there is a bit of a problem between director goo and representative kim .
but you just need to focus on writing , writer lee .
i came because i heard that our representative was here .
yes . you 'll have heard of it , our representative and director goo , neither of them are willing to give way .
it would be good if you could mediate between them .
please do us the favour . well , i gave a final notice to representative kim and since you will find it out soon , i 'll tell you what 's going on .
if producer kim can 't clear up this situation , we have no choice but to produce " morning of kyeongseong " ourselves at sbc .
in-house production ?
yes , in-house production .
so , that means world production will be excluded from the production team .
do you really ... have to go this far ?
ah , nothing about your role will change , so please don 't worry too much .
i 'm sorry , but i think producing the drama through world production is the right choice .
but , why are you on representative kim 's side ?
are you trying to repay him for reinstating you as the writer ?
huh ?
representative kim reinstated me ... ?
what are you going to do now ?
i heard it from the director himself .
he said if it 's not director goo they are going for in-house production .
it 's not for you to interfere .
so are you going to pull out of the production ?
that 's not for you to worry about either .
i 'm asking because i 'm curious how you 're feeling .
you fired people whom you don 't like , but now you 're in the other side 's situation .
so i 'm wondering how you feel , probably it f * * * ing sucks .
it feels dirty and pathetic , right ?
that 's why people hate you .
don 't concern yourself .
that 's why there is no one left at your side .
i don 't need those bastards .
but you said you wanted to make a successful comeback .
to make that success last long , you must not lose people . you don 't have any power now , not like when you were in empire .
what , are the things i said not correct ?
am i not correct ? that 's right . making this drama successful and taking the reward from it for my comeback is the purpose of all of these .
and avenging on those people who took away my position and trampled on my power is the reason .
are they all like that ?
people born and raised in wealthy homes and priviledged environments ?
are they all like you ?
why can 't you just accept the reality of having fallen to the ground ?
is resenting the world your only option ?
so ? did i do anything wrong ? you , why on earth did you end up making dramas ?
there 's no such nonsense as a reason .
you ... why on earth did you end up making dramas ?
you jerk , what did you say !
?
if you call me a fatherless son of a b ... once more and you keep prattling on about my mother not being able to see , i 'll kill you !
what kind of kid is taught that ?
since you 're blind , i can 't tell you to look ( at my son 's face ) .
what are you going to do about my son 's face ?
!
i am sorry .
it 's my fault , because i 'm so lacking .
why are you not apologizing ?
i didn 't do anything wrong .
what ?
i 'm speechless !
i 'm going to report you to the police !
the likes of this one should eat beany rice .
eun seok 's mother !
eun seok 's mother ?
mother .
the expert already confirmed it .
this suicide doesn 't make sense ...
[ " the head of detectives " - a famous korean cop series in 1971 ~ 1989 . ]
the test result came out .
stature , age , blood type , they all did not match .
- what about the fingerprints ?
- well ...
pay attention to the ... good job , you 're doing well .
did you find director goo ?
yes , he 's in the bongcheondong neighborhood .
i 'll send you his location .
if you don 't change your mind , then , yes , i 'll fire you .
give me a bottle of soju , please .
yes .
what business do you have here ?
are you going back to your cottage ?
get lost .
you bastard , what the heck are you doing !
?
all in all , 1.05 billion won .
this is the money you need to shoot the final scene of 5 minutes you want to shoot .
what game are you playing ?
!
those 5 minutes ... shoot them .
in exchange i 'll ask you one thing .
what is this drama to you ?
nothing will change . " morning of kyeongsang " is my last drama !
it 's not .
it 's the foundation for the next 10 years of your career .
i don 't care about your sweet-talks about the future !
each episode is 60 minutes , so 1200 minutes in total . spending 1 billion on 5 minutes makes the remaining 1195 minutes a stretch .
no , this way your future 10 years disappear . for those momentary five minutes , please don 't throw away your glorious 10 years .
and five years ago don 't forget the day when you hit rock bottom .
hey you crazy bastard !
stop !
if i give up on those five minutes , what are you going to give me ?
the 5 lost years that you want to forget i will turn them into the joy of success .
cleanly , without a trace . hey punk ,
i told you to throw that bluff away first .
if it 's a bluff or not , you will see when the time comes .
director , about that director goo and anthony ...
what about anthony ? director , about that director goo and anthony ... what about anthony ?
well , looks like anthony has worked the kinks out with director goo , so everything is in working order now ! in working order ?
yes !
sounded like anthony was able to persuade director goo .
it seems like ... anthony has changed somewhat .. he 's a different man now ...
what a strange world . alright , i see ... director goo , huh ?
alright .
- see you .
what ?
really ?
yes , i decided to curb down my ambitions . that is a great decision , director !
but what made you change your mind ? nothing special , it 's just 5 minutes , not worth throwing out 10 years ' worth of glory .
wow , i 'm so impressed !
impressed ?
whatever .
once you have enough experience , you 'll become more sensible , too , writer lee .
at any rate , i heard that hyun min refuses to do it ?
yes , he says swimming in the sea is too dangerous and difficult for him .
he asked me to change the script if we couldn 't change your mind .
okay .
so it 's too much for hyun min , huh ?
what time is the appointment with hyun min ?
i 'll get to the point right away with director goo , and you need to chime in right then .
i got it .
you have to stand your ground . be firm .
got it ?
i said i understood .
let 's go , sparta .
get that thing ready , please .
yes , i see .
director , i heard that you like to drink .
so we prepared a special gift for you .
i stopped drinking .
excuse me ?
oh , we didn 't know .... well then , instead of wine ... nah , it 's ok .
as long as i don 't drink . here i 'll pour you a glass .
yes .
director .
about the ending scene of episode 1 , the way i see it , there is something that bothers me .
we 're thinking that the scale is rather unrealistic ...
what do you think ?
i agree .
i was a bit overly excited about that .
that 's right , director !
it was overly unrealistic , indeed !
nowadays , the computergraphic technology is so advanced , you can just do that .
you can just shoot it in an artificial pool , there 's no need to do it in real sea water .
that 's so old fashioned .
that 's not what i mean .
i meant that my ambitions went over our budget .
what ?
then , how are we doing that scene ?
even if we turn down the scale , we should still film at sea .
um , director , what do you mean by that ?
no matter what , we 've got to shoot kang hyun min swimming in the sea .
forget the clown that just poses in front of the camera for good looks , we 're going to turn you into a serious actor with a tenacious passion .
how about it ?
don 't you want to stop being a clown and start becoming a real actor ?
no .
i cannot accept that .
hyun , hyun min !
the wilder the dog , once tamed , turns into something great .
give me just a moment , director .
hyung , how did it go ?
you don 't know ?
tell them they won 't see me until they get this thing sorted out !
huh ?
stop !
hey !
stop !
you can 't just storm out like this !
come back in , let 's talk to the director ... even if i die i 'm not going back in , so shut the door and get lost !
alright , then .
you 're not getting out ?
i can 't get out .
if you don 't get off , i won 't get out either even if i die .
they just took off .
yes .
i also saw with my own eyes that he had a drink .
okay .
i understand . you 've worked hard .
get started with our arrangements .
yes , i understand .
i heard that you and director goo have reached an agreement .
yes .
that 's a relief .
were you sincere in saying it 's a relief ? i 'm just dying to know , how did you do it ?
do what ?
neither director goo nor you , representative kim , are known for compromising their positions .
i made a deal .
what kind of a deal ?
i don 't think i 'm obliged to divulge that information to you .
what ?
!
" a clown that poses in front of the camera for a few good looking shots " ?
" turn me into a real actor " ?
how dare he say that to me , kang hyun min !
don 't you agree ?
!
why couldn 't he say that ?
what ?
!
don 't even think about going back and hiding in a pension in yangpyeong to play video games .
turn the car around .
get out .
i know you don 't really have anywhere else to go .
why are you like this ?
!
you 're like a kid whining to his mom whenever something goes wrong .
why wouldn 't i have anywhere to go ?
then where ?
where would you go ?
i 'll go see my mom !
what ? ouch !
man , everything is just driving me crazy !
aigo , what do i do ?
!
aish , darn it !
shouldn 't we get out ?
oh , are you alright ?
i 'm really sorry .
why do something that 'll make you sorry ?
let the insurance company take care of it .
ah yes , we shall do that .
oh , by the way , aren 't you kang hyun min ?
never mind . just give me your contact info .
of course .
man , what a hassle !
what is going on ?
just a fender-bender . i rear-ended his car .
oh , is that so ?
have you reached an agreement ?
yes , yes .
ah , but i think he has been drinking .
drinking ? sunbae-nim , i 'm sure your project 's going well .
thanks to you .
i haven 't done anything .
it 's all thanks to your skills .
what is it ?
bad news .
what bad news ?
kang hyun min just got caught for drunk driving .
his blood-alcohol content is enough to get his license suspended .
where are you ?
ah , where is this ?
hello ?
hello , lee go eun ?
say something , lee go eun !
preview
tell me ! how did this happen ? if we let kang hyun min resume his role , the public will criticize our whole broadcasting station .
shouldn 't you partner up with someone more trustable ?
let 's replace kang hyun min with a different actor .
i heard that writer lee go eun isn 't doing so well , either , so both writer and actor should be replaced .
i 'm just asking for some time !
carzy dog , we need song bit na . absolutely .
i think everything was a set up , not a coincidence .
oh jin wan .
ah , you 're firing me , kang hyun min ?
if we don 't get this worked out in three days , we 're doomed !
ah , i don 't know , i don 't know i 'm going crazy !
the only person who can solve this problem is your mother .
you know , my tummy aches too much , doctor .
she doesn 't have any external injuries or any special symptoms , why hasn 't she woken up yet ?
the question is .. whether there is brain damage .
who are you ?
do ... i know that person , too ?
why do you not know me ?
you absolutely must remember me !
even if you have to use the power of hatred , just remember me , lee go eun !
episode 7 asphalt gladiator outpatient reception admissiondischarge protocols come to your senses , lee go eun !
tell me ! how did this happen ? !
while the cops caught me for drunk driving , she was on the phone , and then ... it all happened so quickly . go eun ! - go eun !
- wait , we have to get her to a scanner right away .
go eun , why ?
go eun !
go eun !
how did this happen ?
why is my kid lying there unconscious ?
answer me !
i 'm sorry . if by any chance , something happens to my child , i am really going to kill you !
go eun !
go eun !
go eun !
go eun !
go eun !
- there he is !
- he 's here !
kang hyun min !
what is your take on the situation ?
please , even a sentence will do !
kang hyun min !
mr. kang hyun min , would you please explain your drunk driving charge ?
is it true that you were fully drunk , and that your license is suspended ?
what kind of effects do you foresee on your acting career ?
kang hyun min drinking and driving can he do the drama ?
how in the world can he drive while drunk right before his new drama is about to start ?
if we let kang hyun min keep his role , the whole public might criticize our broadcasting station .
well , so ... what does the chief producer in charge think ?
since shooting hasn 't even started yet , i don 't think we need the risk of such a controversial actor ...
so you want to cut him off ?
! yes , if you do something wrong , you should be punished for it , but you don 't want to overdo the punishment to the extent of killing kang hyun min 's life as an actor !
he 's done it to himself !
so , just because the media is criticizing him , you want to jump on the wagon and end his career , too ?
i cannot abandon my actor like that !
replace the actor ?
let 's replace kang hyun min with a different actor .
director !
it doesn 't make sense to keep kang hyun min when the public sentiment is in such an uproar .
plus , it 's not just my personal opinion , but the whole drama department 's opinion .
i can 't do that .
is it because of the contract fee that you 've paid him in advance ?
we can 't take the risk of his ruined reputation affecting our business just to accommodate your financial situation .
i 've also heard that writer lee go eun is not doing well , either .
i think it 's better to replace both the writer and actor this time .
please , give me some time .
replace them at once .
please , give me some time .
representative kim !
just give me some time !
three days .
three days .
resolve all this in 3 days .
if you don 't resolve this in 3 days , no matter how much financial loss may incur , we replace them both .
there 's no way that anthony would want to replace kang hyun min and forfeit the 2 billion won he paid him .
besides , there 's no other actor to replace him with .
moreover , the writer is in a coma . in short , " morning of kyeongseong " is beyond repair at this point .
so , what is it you want ?
if " morning of kyeongseong " is a no go , wouldn 't the empire 's " elegant revenge 2 " be a good sub for it ?
i know very well that you had lent anthony a hand , assistant director .
forgive me for saying this , but why don 't you lend that hand to someone more reliable ?
someone who can really be a big help when you 're in need .
look at them all .
such vultures .
they don 't care about the person who got injured , but only about kang hyun min if he 's coming or not .
how heartless they are !
at any rate , i hope writer lee wakes up from her coma .
what a disaster this is .
what is the problem ?
she doesn 't have any serious external injuries or odd symptoms .
why isn 't she up yet ?
the question is whether there is any brain damage .
once we take a look at her brain scans , we 'll have more information , but at this point , it 's hard to say .
what are you so excited about ?
well , we 're really getting started with the project now !
i know very well that the fate of not just me and you , but everybody involved with this drama depends on the choices i make .
that 's why i can 't give up .
we 'll have victory for sure !
are you sure ?
what percentage is your confidence rating ?
you always said to me , " believe me . "
this time , it 's your turn to believe me , representative .
i 'll stay here , so you guys can go back to work .
no , we 'll wait here , too , until she wakes up .
yeah , even if i tried to work , i don 't think i 'll be able to focus on it .
are we going to collapse here ?
are we going to collapse , throwing a fit like a whiny kid ?
lee go eun will wake up .
absolutely .
get back to work so that we can start shooting with her script right away .
yes .
thank you .
what is it ?
what is it that you have to say ?
about the drunk driving incident of mr. kang hyun min ....
actually ...
-representative !
i found it .
the first news report of kang hyun min 's drunk driving charge was written by reporter park seong bok of daehan daily .
what , park seong bok ?
yes .
the same reporter who had written that calumnious report about the death of the delivery man 3 years ago .
it was also reporter park who rear-ended kang hyun min 's car .
i think it was all a scheme , not a coincidence .
oh jin wan !
where are you going ?
you can 't go in !
representative ... please leave .
move out the way , unless you wish to die .
didn 't i warn you that i was going to win this ...
are you crazy ?
you want to be sued ?
then do it .
oh jin wan , i 'm warning you !
you can do anything to me , but you can 't touch my actor , my writer , my people .
since when did anthony , to whom the end justified any means , become an advocate of justice ?
i learned it all from you .
in order to get what i want , i have to be cold-blooded and merciless , extinguishing every last ray of hope !
then , here 's another lesson for you !
a death match is only between gladiators .
pd joo ?
representative , i 'm calling to inform you about lee go eun .
deputy director ... it 's me .
what i told you to do , i think you should hurry up and proceed with it .
immediately .
representative !
what ?
the ct , did it come out okay ?
um , about that ... she woke up , but ... lee go eun , are you okay ?
who are you ?
do i know him as well ?
you really don 't know me ?
i 'm not sure .
why don 't you know me ?
i am anthony .
anthony who buried you in this field 3 years ago after only using you , and later threw you away again without mercy ! it 's me , anthony !
do you even forget your hatred and resentment towards me ?
this can 't be .
you must remember me .
even if you have to use the power of hatred you must remember me , lee go eun !
so you do know that .
how mean you have been to me !
always you were the one who tricked people , but now how do you feel being fooled ?
do you think i fell for such a clumsy act of yours ?
i 'm sorry but i have been producing dramas for the last 10 years .
i have used the " amnesia " plot more than 100 times .
and also , you ... were the worst among all of the amnesia acting i 've seen .
so if you have time to make this kind of petty joke , use that time to write scripts !
pd joo already brought me my laptop anyway !
hey , go eun ! i brought your favorite , grilled mackerel ....
you 're here ?
pd joo , make sure writer lee gets everything she needs .
yes .
by the way , you totally fell for it earlier , didn 't you ?
i have never seen you being like that before , representative .
so ... you mean " elegant revenge 2 " of empire production ?
well ...
it 's not easy to find a top actor who is available for shooting now . and moreover ,
empire production has finished its set-up for shooting with the casting of kim jin woo .
kim jin woo ?
right now ?
that 's why it 's empire production , isn 't it ?
even if we wait one or two days more , it 's not like any great option will suddenly pop up .
director nam , let 's proceed ( with empire ) right away , no need to wait more ( for world ) . but as it was a promise i gave as director , let 's wait just for 3 days .
if there is no change after 3 days , i will reconsider the project . since writer lee go eun is conscious now , i 'm very relieved then ..
i really drank just one shot , but a license suspension ? those articles are all lies !
that breathalyzer was obviously manipulated !
it 's not the time to whine that you 're wronged !
whine ?
representative ... if even you are treating me like this ...
do you know why you were casted ?
because you 're good at acting ?
because i like you personally ?
no , it was because the station would give me the broadcasting schedule if i brought you .
but because of your reckless behavior , we 're now in a crisis and there is no other actor to immediately replace you either .
if we don 't solve this issue within three days , all of us are finished !
what do you mean " finished " ?
is it decided at the broadcasting station ?
me ?
you will fire me ?
me , kang hyun min ?
what ... should we do now ?
did you request the blood test ?
yes , but ...
i 'm not sure its result from national forensic service will come out within three days .
hyung ... it 's bit na , but she says your cell phone is turned off so ...
tell her i 'll call later .
then , what are you doing for media play ?
that 's , well ...
hyung ... it 's your mother ... oh my god , seriously !
mom !
how many times have i told you that i can 't come to you ? right now , there are tons of reporters waiting in front of my house , to bury your son , kang hyun min , alive !
mom !
do you think your stomachache is a big deal now ?
aren 't you watching tv , mom ?
right at the moment when you had a stomachache and went to the er , i had a big accident , too !
i don 't know .
i 'm going crazy .
let 's talk later , bye !
watch your language to your mother !
she 's my mom , but she doesn 't even have a clue what happened to her son .
she 's nagging why i 'm not visiting her when she has a stomachache .
then , you should visit her !
huh ?
the only person who will resolve this situation is your mom .
well , from now on , our new script will begin .
hyun min , you should lower your head as much as possible .
representative choi and kwang soo , you guys make a way for hyun min , with the sincere mind to help him visiting his sick mother quickly .
hyun min 's mother had a little bit of stomachache and went to er around at 6pm yesterday .
she 's goes to the er so often just like she would visit her spa for a massage .
so the doctors get so frustrated when they see my mom 's name .
yes .
she came again ? that 's because when they look at her , she looks too fine .
so , can you tell me which pain brought you here again ?
the stomach .
my stomach really hurts , doctor .
but last night , to run to your sick mother at er , you had no choice but to drive . but , yesterday , hyun min 's mother left the er at 7 pm .
and the time of my accident was later than 8pm .
that 's why we should make a story .
hyun min got a phone call before that and ran to the hospital !
mom left the hospital with a doctor 's facile prescription .
but then , bam !
there was an accident .
then , today ?
hyun min 's mother 's symptom , which wasn 't serious yesterday , became serious today !
hyun min ...
yes .
you and i , the fate of us is all depends on your mother 's acting today .
where do you feel the pain ?
ma 'am , where is your pain , tell me !
bring doctors !
bring doctors !
it hurts , hurts , hurts !
for now , take ct scans !
yes .
ma 'am ?
oh , my tummy !
aigoo !
mom ! mr. kang hyun min !
mr. kang hyun min had an accident on his way here yesterday , so he couldn 't come sooner .
i heard that she complained about serious stomach pain yesterday , too .
uh .... yes , yes , yes .
then , mr. kang hyun min 's dui last night was because of an emergency with his mother 's health ?
then , mr. kang hyun min 's dui last night was because of an emergency with his mother 's health ? why didn 't he explain that sooner ?
listen , people , this is a hospital .
contain yourselves .
does the mother of kr . kang hyun min know , too ?
we 're waiting for the lab results currently .
do you have any predictions about her diagnosis ?
mr. kang hyun min will have a press conference to answer all these questions .
please leave now .
this smells fishy ...
fishy ?
when is kang hyun min 's press conference ?
this coming friday .
no one must know about our plan .
therefore , make sure that your mother , representative choi , and gwang soo all zip it up .
yes .
we must keep this secret especially from lee go eun , who 'll write your apology to be read at the conference .
even from writer lee go eun ?
but she 's one of us , though ?
she is one of us , but she can 't be one of us when we 're lying .
what do you think she 'd do if she found out about our dishonest plan ?
i got it .
at times , the enemy within us can do the most damage .
never , never must she know !
the mother of mr. kang hyun min is ill ?
last night , she couldn 't keep anything down even .
her stomach was in such a pain ... then , when you said that you were going to see your mother ... you were being serious ?
i know you don 't have anywhere else to go , why are you being like this ?
you 're like a kid whining to his mom when something goes wrong !
why wouldn 't i have anywhere else to go ?
where ?
where are you going ?
i 'm going to see my mom !
happy ?
that 's right .
i 'm so sorry , i didn 't know ...
i understand .
i 'm sorry for not even contacting you when you woke up .
i had no idea that kang hyun min 's mother was ill .
at least the media reports are sympathetic toward kang hyun min .
what a relief .
great relief indeed , now that writer lee is also recovering swiftly .
at any rate , that bastard representative oh has reserved a spot in hell .
attacking kang hyun min 's career with the dui charge was all his doing .
man , the bad karma between our representative kim and representative oh ...
could it be that they were a married couple in their previous life ?
why else would they be such enemies ?
why have you been ignoring my calls ?
is there someone beside you ?
no .
it 's okay now .
i 'd like you to find out one more thing .
see if the mother of kang hyun min is really ill .
do you really have to go this far ?
what 's wrong with you ?
are you getting cold feet now ?
writer lee could have been seriously injured !
why do you think i planned this whole thing with kang hyun min 's dui ?
my target is anthony .
kang hyun min 's dui was just one of the means to get to that end .
lee go eun is just an unexpected , unfortunate casualty .
i don 't care who gets hurt and whose career gets ruined .
whatever you say , i can 't .... if something goes wrong , do you think you 'll be safe ?
if i expose that you were my mole , your career in this field will be totally over .
think of your frail grandmother . unless you want to spend the rest of your life penniless and jobless , and end up watching helplessly as your grandmother passes away , and end up watching helplessly as your grandmother passes away , do as i say .
do you really think anthony made it up ?
we shall find out soon enough . the moment the truth comes out that kang hyun min 's mother was faking her health problems , the dui charge will be nothing compared to that . it won 't be just kang hyun min that falls , but anthony as well will be doomed forever beyond hope in this field .
it 's not like i committed a serious crime , why do i have to do this ?
regardless of the circumstances , you did drink and drive .
you 've betrayed the trust of the public that have loved you , and you 've hurt their feelings .
this is not just for show .
unless you sincerely repent , this whole thing is pointless !
did i ever ask them to love me ?
they just fell head over heels for me because i 'm so hot !
yes , you 're hot .
so you can also make a hot apology .
unless you want to ruin your career .
alright .
happy ?
happy about what ?
you need to practice .
practice until it hurts .
i am only what i am thanks to the love i receive from the public , and i express my deepest regrets for betraying the trust of so many fans ... wait , i think you should pause for a moment after " betraying the trust . "
i think you should lower your gaze slightly before moving on to the next words .
i am only what i am thanks to the love i receive from the public , and i express my deepest regrets for betraying the trust of so many fans .
good . next .
i do not want to try to justify my actions of that day with my personal circumstances ...
that 's not it .
you have to show a surge of emotions .
think of your mom and pause .
... with my personal circumstances .
nah , too weak .
go again !
i will accept all criticisms for my actions and use them to drive myself to become a better person .
hmm .
good .
pardon ?
you think it was staged ?
well , i wouldn 't put it past anthony if he 's desperate enough .
listen , what if anthony just wanted to calm down the public sentiment by staging a health issue with kang hyun min 's mother who is not sick at all ?
moreover , what if the truth came out ?
this would certainly harm the reputation of our station !
yes , i understand .
however , i don 't think we should make a hasty decision about this . think about it , if , as you say , the truth were to come out , kang hyun min 's career would be most affected , right ?
would kang hyun min really gamble his whole career like that ?
listen , director nam . the actor 's career depends on the impression the public has of him .
there 's nothing he couldn 't do to restore his ruined reputation .
alright , i see .
if , as you say , assistant director , the issue turns out to be staged , then ... i will take away the broadcasting slot from " morning of kyeongseong . "
got it ? when answering questions about your mother , don 't hesitate .
you 'll look more dejected . still ,
i think we need to be clear about the issue with my mom .
absolutely not .
too much water drowns the miller .
who 's going to drown ? mom did go to the er that day , and she 's in the hospital . mom did go to the er that day , and she 's in the hospital .
listen carefully .
if people find out that your mother is a fake patient , everything is over .
it will be totally over for you and me both , forever .
make no mistakes .
the fate of you , me , and our drama depends on today .
fate ?
yes , representative .
was i right ?
i was right .
did you record their conversation as i told you to ?
yes .
good . send me a copy of that file , and i 'll text you director heo 's phone number , so send him a copy , too .
you still remember ... what i told you , right ?
if you want to live , just do as i say .
representative !
what is it ?
i have something to tell you .
say it .
just a moment , can we talk privately ?
since we 're busy now , let 's talk later .
this is the cell number of director heo .
ah , yes .
yes , yes ....
yes .
the blood test result of hyun min came out .
it 's 0.04 and lower than the limit !
okay .
now , we just need to finish this press conference well .
oh , thank you jesus !
are you ready ?
let 's go .
i , kang hyun min , have lived getting generous love from all the people for the last several years .
yes , representative .
why has that file not been sent yet ?
that was ... because my cell phone wasn 't fully charged until now .
i will send you that file now . if someone has too many thoughts , he loses many things as well , you know . you know what i mean , don 't you ?
in addition , for all the difficulties the production team of " morning of kyeongseong " had to go through because of me , i 'm giving my sincere apology to them .
so i drove the car myself .
[ voice message ]
[ voice message ] however , about my personal situation , i don 't want to make any excuses .
writer lee could 've been in a really dangerous situation .
why do you think i planned kang hyun min 's dui ?
my target is anthony .
kang hyun min 's dui case is just one of all means to hit that target .
lee go eun was just an unexpected , scapegoat .
i don 't care who gets hurt , or who would be doomed .
woo hee jae , this bastard !
i don 't care .
this is the cell number of director heo .
what were you trying to say ?
i 'm sorry , representative .
i got it .
in return , you do only what i tell you to do .
stop !
writer lee could 've been really in a danger .
representitive !
anthony !
in a press conference which is being aired live , a represntative of a top-class drama production company reveals his own dirty trick to the nation himself . it could 've been a fun show , but luckily you stopped it . with that file , what are you going to do ?
that depends on how you behave from now on .
if you keep digging into hyun min 's mother 's case , i will reveal this file .
then , the public will criticize you , and chairman will fire you who ruins the reputation of the company , just like he did fire me 3 years ago .
are you saying to make a deal with me ?
so you 're not as dumb as i thought .
oh , and one more .
through all medias you 're dealing with , friendly opinions about hyun min will be poured out .
now , the combat between gladiators is finished . i will go back to the colosseum and enjoy my victory , so you 'd better hurry up . however , based on all the criticism and advice you 've given me ,
we will finish our press conference now .
thank you
thank you
thank you
thank you
are you okay ?
how was i ?
was i good ?
the best .
you were bada * * ! especially when you lowered your head for a moment , then , as you continued to talk , with tears ... ! it was art !
of course !
i had especially worked on that part .
have a seat !
where is anthony , anyway ?
what is the reaction of the reporters ?
much better than i had expected .
they 're already releasing sympathetic news reports .
- applause !
- but let me make one thing clear .
i swear , i don 't care what kind of a life you lead .
it 's up to you whether you ruin yourself with drugs or gamble your life away . however , i will not tolerate any mistake from you when you are kim woo jin of " morning of kyeongseong . "
what did that loony say ?
did you understand him ?
i sure didn 't !
congrats !
good job !
well , considering the blood test results and all , i think it 's ok to keep kang hyun min on board .
what do you think ?
it 's too early to tell yet .
what 's important is the public opinion . correct . the numbers may be legally acceptable , but it 's still true that he drove after drinking alcohol .
i think it would be wise to watch the movement of the public opinion .
yes , - director .
i reviewed the reactions of the media reports and the netizens .
yes .
the voice of sympathy is decidedly predominant .
is that so ?
yes .
then , as planned , the november slot is reserved for " morning of kyeongseong " with kang hyun min .
agreed ?
oh , hyung , look at this !
scroll up , up , up , oh , this one !
this one ! oh yes , that 's a good one !
nice shot !
it looks like you were crying .
really crying !
that tear is a real tear .
it 's worth a million dollars .
this is amazing !
take a look at this , director .
our hyun min oppa must have been in so much pain !
the netizens keep posting comments .
hyun min oppa 's big heart is public knowledge .
good .
as you see , the public opinion about kang hyun min is changed 180 degrees overnight .
right now , netizens are signing petitions to go against kang hyun min being fired .
come in .
are you writer lee go eun ?
who are you ?
please to meet you .
i 'm hyun min 's mother .
if you 're hyun min 's mother ...
kang hyun min ... ?
yes .
superstar kang hyun min 's mother .
you 're still weak , stay sitting !
you 're even more sick than i am ; i can 't stay sitting .
well , i am sick .
even if i 'm a fake patient .
what are you talking about ?
you know .
flowers ?
yes , director .
we 've decided to go with kang hyun min as previously planned .
i understand .
you don 't seem too happy .
no , i am happy .
very happy .
by any chance , is this what you 've already anticipated ?
what do you mean ?
no , nevermind . then , see you later .
the station 's drama department decided to keep kang hyun min .
what is that reaction ?
do you have something you haven 't told me ?
something i haven 't told you ?
what ?
what is it ?
kang hyun min 's mother just came by .
how could you trick me like that ?
it 's fine now that you know .
how can you say something like that ?
if i told you honestly , would you have agreed obediently ?
no !
i would never have participated in such a farce !
no , i would 've dissuade you not to do that !
see !
you 're really immoral .
turning someone 's perfectly fine mother into a seriously ill person in a second wasn 't enough ?
someday , she will be seriously ill , i guess .
for your drama , you 've thrown away your father , now it 's your mother ?
because a husband and a wife are equal .
get out .
i don 't even want to look at you , so get out !
i 'm busy anyway , so i can 't stay longer .
ah , that devil !
this devil will go back to home to hell now , so you 'd better write the script for episode 6 .
is he crazy or something ?
what do i do ?
hello .
-hello .
what 's that ?
this is the letter hee jae left .
without saying anything , he said he 's going to resign for personal reasons .
hey .
what is this ?
to writer lee go eun ? representative , i 'm not brave enough to meet you in person , so i 'm telling you like this .
over that last few months , represantative , who treated me so well and to the people in world production with an apologetic heart , i 'm a sinner . the fact that i will not receive forgiveness even with any excuses ,
i know that very well .
so i , somebody pathetic , will be leaving .
our writer 's precious drama , " morning of kyeongseong "
i will pray that it will be successful .
be healthy .
writer lee !
you 've been well ?
you must still be sick ; you should have told us before you came .
i 'm better now .
you want me to forgive him ?
yes .
i know you 're really disappointed and angry , but can 't you forgive him ?
no .
a person who betrays once will betray again .
you make a mistake once .
and hee jae , he 's having a hard time , living with his sick grandma these days .
that 's why he must have been greedy from his youthful passion .
he 's regretting it right now .
what does that have to do with me ?
he 's already fired .
so don 't butt into my business , and you do your work .
why did he get fired ?
actually , i don 't really know myself .
that bastard ... even when i ask , he doesn 't reply .
he doesn 't even pick up his phone anymore .
do you possibly know his address ?
grandma .
do you possibly know this house , # 30 ?
that 's our house .
we don 't have any coffee mugs ... no , it 's fine .
this is good too .
by the way , where 's hee jae ?
he hasn 't come home from work yet .
it 's about time for him to come home .
by the way , didn 't you say you 're working with him ?
oh , i 'm on a vacation .
it 's so strange today .
a lot of people from work visited .
really ?
wh ... who was it ?
they didn 't tell me their name , but ... they said to send this on to him .
ah grandma , do you mind if i read that ? yes , yes . because of my eyesight , even if i read it , i wouldn 't know what it was about .
shut up and come to work early , before i really fire you .
grandmother , i 'm here .
writer lee .
[ loony ]
what ?
what are you doing ?
whatever i 'm doing , why do you have to know that ?
just ...
have you reconsidered about hee jae ?
that betrayer will come to work again .
well done .
earlier , he came to me and begged me to let him work again , crying over and over .
so , is that the reason you took him back ?
no , i just decided to use him for only three months .
don 't worry about useless things , and if you have time to make a call , just write scripts .
wait a moment .
one more thing .
what else ?
why did you lie ?
are you talking about that again ?
reinstating me as a writer was done by you , not the director of the drama department .
i never did that .
tell me .
why did you lie ? i guess you heard some weird rumor , but stop talking nonsense , and just write more scripts .
because i 'm blind , i only see you .
because my heart is frozen , i hug you .
when my trembling lips touch your ears , i say the words i dreamed of ...
good morning !
since i first met you , i love you .
who are you , huh ?
this brat !
huh ?
welcome back !
... those words that came out as tears little by little , fill up my heart as if my heart will explode with those words .
because both of my eyes are blinded ,
okay , then let 's go for our other half face , the main female actress .
yes .
kim ah joong will work a movie with 16 million won budget next month .
and lee bo young is staying abroad now after finishing the last drama so successfully .
kim seon ah , who is so hot these days , is already scheduled for a drama which will be aired wednesday-thursday in m broadcasting , so she 's not available . and jeon ji hyun has a casting inquiry from hollywood now , so she 's waiting for its finalization . and the last , eom ji won , who is doing both tv and movie a lot these days , is done filming a movie now and reviewing scripts for the next project .
she says she will never work with kang hyun min , even if she dies .
why is sung min ah not on this list ?
i heard her schedule is available as well .
that 's because ... she 's an actress of empire production .
she can 't work with us because she belongs to empire ?
yes , because our company is not on good terms with empire .
more accurately , anthony and oh jin wan are enemies so it won 't work , right ?
but why does it ... have anything to do with me ? crazy dog , you told me that if i give up that momentary 5 minutes , you will make sure that i will forget the past 5 years by the joy of success . to taste that joy ,
no matter what .
look at me now ( in french )
wow , you are too good .
miss min ah , you 're fantastic , yes , great !
great pose , ok , yes ! now , ready , 1,2 . good !
you worked well .
it 's done for today .
good job .
- you all worked hard .
good job .
miss min ah , you were amazing today , as always .
i didn 't do much .
it 's all thanks to your great work of photography .
aigoo , you 're even modest !
sung min ah is indeed the best .
thanks for your work today .
don 't you ever schedule another shoot with that man .
why not ?
did he do something wrong ?
i can 't concentrate because of his bad breath !
alright , i 'll look into it .
a skilled photographer who doesn 't have bad breath , ok ?
why don 't you guys go ahead .
it has been a long time .
you haven 't changed .
you 're still good at surprising people .
take this .
what is that ?
it 's the script for the mini series for november mondays and tuesdays of s broadcasting .
i did hear that you were broke .
i guess that means your scale has shrunk , too ?
for you to offer me a script of a rookie writer .
compared to the pathetic writers of empire who haven 't written anything worthy of the return of sung min ah for the past three years , it 's completely different .
what to do ?
in addition to writers , i also screen producers .
is there anything else you need to know about me ?
how much are you going to pay me ?
as much as you want .
you can 't afford that , ever .
sure i can . because you 're the best actress , sung min ah .
read it carefully and give me a call .
my number hasn 't changed .
who is it ?
who ... who is it ?
did i startle you ?
i 'm just teasing .
quite spacious for a writer 's studio .
about the same size as ... the second bathroom of my living room .
quit mocking , it 's my very first studio .
why have you come ?
well , just , uhm ...
i thought i 'd check out the writer 's studio .
i heard that ... you saw my mom .
yes , i did .
i also received great words of wisdom .
hey , you know it was inevitable .
thank you .
i normally don 't say thank you very often .
thank you .
i truly appreciate what you did this time .
i feel as if ...
i found a new friend .
then , be good from now on .
yeah , about that ...
wouldn 't it be better to take out that swimming at sea part ?
i 'd love it if that part was cut out from the whole script !
i don 't know about the others , but you absolutely have to swim in the ocean .
absolutely !
is that all ?
you said you can afford to pay me because i 'm the best actress there is .
yes .
then , let me ask you one thing .
do you still ... love me ?
if you would act for " morning of kyeongseong . "
preview ep 8 how much longer do i have to bathe those filthy brats ?
episode 8 reinforcements will not come hyung , why is he so late returning ? that 's what i 'm saying .
it has already been for more than 5 hours since he left to meet her . um ... representative ?
what ? it 's nothing . pd joo .
yes .
quickly write a news release and circulate it to these media companies i checked , the first thing in the morning tomorrow .
but ... what article are you talking about ?
the title is like this :
sung min ah confirmed as " morning in kyeongseong 's " lead actress .
huh ?
an article about sung min ah joining our drama ?
sung min ah has decided to do our drama .
quickly get started on writing the news release . good work ,
crazy dog .
are you now ready to taste that joy ?
that 's right .
it 's now satisfactory .
what say you , feeling good ?
the best , that 's my feeling . even if anthony is very nasty and mean , if you look into him , isn 't he a pretty okay producer ?
yes .
sometimes i want to beat him up , but like today he 's quite an okay producer .
by the way , when was the last time you took a bath ?
i bathe everyday .
but i 'm not scrubbing often .
no wonder ...
how can it be a human body ?
this is an eraser !
just kidding around .
bath over !
good bye .
bye-bye hyun woo .
don 't catch a cold .
oh , really nice !
why are you here ?
it 's my turn .
teacher , please let me take a break for a moment .
we 're just going to the bathroom for a second .
yes .
for how long do i have to wash dirty , dead skinned rascals ?
you decided to do volunteer work for the meaning of self-reflection .
do you think i 'm asking because i don 't know ?
! it would be enough to just shoot a few photos .
how much are you going to push me ?
! you , listen to me carefully .
in order for you to protect your image as a lead actor which you ruined you are not only scrubbing body grime but also shaving your hair . ( word play in korean )
my hair ?
right . even if you have to show them shaving your hair , you have to show them that you 're self-reflecting .
i 'll just scrub off dead skin .
good .
scrub it off with all your might .
what 's with you ?
eat it .
what ?
i told you to eat it .
if he gives you something to eat , you should eat it .
director !
sung min ah ?
are you saying that sung min ah got casted ?
right .
korea 's top star , kang hyun min with the best , sung min ah .
this is great !
we have the best casting combination , right ?
hyung !
seems like you should come back . the kids are getting cold waiting .
ok , all right .
i 'll go and scrub off those erasers .
get going .
yes .
no way !
even if i don 't know anything else but this . even if i don 't know anything else but this .
with anthony 's drama you definitely can 't .
why ?
are you asking because you don 't know ?
! you always said this when i was a rookie .
this is a royal order .
shut your mouth and do what i tell you .
now i give the royal orders .
meet all the conditions they request , and proceed the contract .
what ?
i definitely told you .
i told you to proceed with the contract .
why on earth are you being like this ?
have you forgotten what anthony did to you ?
! one more thing .
don 't ask me for my reasons from now on .
if you want to continue to keep me under contract .
our affiliated actress sung min ah is doing anthony 's drama ?
i 'm sorry .
even though i told her no , it 's what she wants .
no matter what it takes , i will stop her from acting in that drama .
no .
let her have her way .
pardon ?
what do you mean ...
the attack is allowed just once .
in this one opportunity , it 's important to go for the kill .
if you say " the only opportunity of attack .. " ?
where did you say the investor of anthony 's drama was ?
topstar sung min ah confirmed for ' morning in kyeongseong'
set up the date for the script practice session and the drama press conference on 19th .
kang hyun min sung min ah
lead actor and actress of ' morning in kyeongseong ' .
notify the schedule to all media companies , actors , actresses and staffs .
sung min ah 's drama comeback after 3 years don 't forget to send an invitation respectfully to watanabe group , the investor .
yes !
drama " morning in kyeongseong " ultra-luxury casting yes , reporter park .
have you been well ?
this is world production calling .
i 'm sorry but as it was too urgent .
how is it going with our invitation cards ?
yes , please send them by 12pm .
representative !
the sun has risen a while ago .
stop sleeping , get up and get ready to go out .
where are we going ?
sung min ah said she wanted to meet you .
sung min ah ?
what is sung min ah 's character like ?
probably better than yours .
i read from an article that she is very thoughtful .
hello ! i 'm lee go eun .
you 're younger than i thought .
alright , let 's get some fresh air . you two have a chat .
i read and liked the script .
it 's been a long time since a script made me greedy like this one .
thank you .
but ...
yes ?
if there 's a problem ...
i 'm talking about episode one .
don 't you think that 's too much of the theme ?
too much of the theme ?
" a man 's sorrowful life story who lives in the dark age . "
the theme should thicken as time passes , not shown all at once like that .
that 's why i decided to start by explaining the background with the characters around the main guy .
that 's not what i 'm saying .
then ... the role of jin hye rim i 'm taking on , she 's not at all in episode one and appears last in episode two .
if you brought an actress who is paid many tens of thousands won , you have to show her for the amount of time that fits her price .
what are you imply ...
the female lead isn 't the male lead 's maid of honour .
to fit the name of sung min ah , revise the script starting with episode one .
i fully understand what you 've said .
but the planned story line is ...
writer lee .
yes .
under whom did you learn ?
why are you asking ?
just like i thought , you really smack of a rookie writer .
i will make this clear .
you did not cast me .
i chose you . no , i chose this drama .
so right now i 'm not asking a favour .
i am not trying to give you advice either .
so you 're saying right now that we don 't have a choice ?
it seems you 're not too much of a fool .
do you always crush writers like that ?
no .
i didn 't need to .
the writers i worked with up to now were veterans .
so they were aware and did all that was needed .
the rookie writer who knows nothing will only say one thing .
this drama is not a drama for you alone .
even if it 's for sung min ah , i can 't fix even one character .
you can 't fix it ?
yes .
for an actor who is full of egoistic pride and doesn 't think about the whole drama it 's unnecessary .
you look like you ended your chat well ...
yes .
very well .
you knew , right ?
what ?
do you know what sung min ah said to me ?
what could she have said . to match the role to the worth of her name .
by bringing me even when you knew that , i guess you tried to shake up my script again with the actress this time ? what could she have said . to match the role to the worth of her name .
by bringing me even when you knew that , i guess you tried to shake up my script again with the actress this time ? do you think that way ?
i was wrong for trusting you .
so ... what have you decided to do ?
who did you say was the new director of s broadcasting ?
okay , let 's see .
well done .
oh . make it possible to film this part also .
there will be a hidden scene behind the building .
i 've got it .
good , i think it 's done here , so ...
let 's go to jin hye rim 's room .
oh , writer lee !
hello .
oh , why are you here instead of writing ?
so it 's like that .
what 's the best thing to do , director ?
what did crazy dog say ?
it 's useless to hear from him . they planned together to change up my script .
actors and actresses are so weird .
sometimes , they run into the fire for their pieces , and ... even with not eating and staying up all night , they dedicate to their roles . but what i 'm saying is this .
there is something that the actors never give up .
what is that ?
the tenacity toward their roles .
in other words , they never step back when it 's about getting their portion .
why is it like that ?
well ...
that 's just their nature .
with the natural tenacity they have , they accomplish their jobs .
they are like animals with the only instinct for acting .
then can 't we change their instinct ?
changing the instinct ...
that 's difficult even for me .
director !
all these are part of the struggles .
i wish you a good luck .
yes , director .
yes !
ah , writer lee . come in .
so , i 'll get going .
are you ?
no need to see me off .
i 'll contact you .
yes .
writer lee , have a seat .
yes .
i heard briefly about it .
yes .
right .
i myself am a drama creator also , so i sympathise with your point of view and i 'm rooting for you .
thank you .
but now i 'll talk to you as the director of this drama 's broadcasting station .
sung min ah is an actress which all broadcasters want to acquire .
you know that , right ?
yes .
sung min ah 's demand is a demand that is totally understandable from the point of view of a lead actress .
i hope you consider this point .
did you listen well to what the broadcasting director said ?
do you have to use your strength to pressure me like that ?
yes .
if i say that i do .
let 's talk for a while , us .
our conversation is possible after the revised script comes out .
i clearly told you , i have not agreed to modifying the script .
you .
don 't act up .
your talent is quite something .
first writer lee go eun , now even up to sung min ah .
you return the people whom you threw away coldly back to your people .
you don 't personally need to get an inferiority complex . if there is one thing that i don 't have , it would be the inferiority complex that you stupidly grasp on .
that 's not an inferiority complex , it 's called fury .
don 't make the mistake of thinking that you 've already won .
i never tried to win against you . i am not doing that now , nor will i ever do that .
someone like you can 't become my target .
what to do ?
you 're my target .
then someone who failed with the target right in front of him , must be feeling frustrated .
laugh as much as you can while it lasts .
there will be a day when you will be stomped on severely .
sang tae gu .
this is also so-so . something else .
bit na .
you said this oppa is awesome in whatever i wear .
but why is this not good ?
because you 're cool it 's just so-so .
if that chick sung min ah falls for you then what ?
then it can 't be helped .
oppa !
oppa is many people 's man .
and oppa belongs to bit na . don 't you know that ?
we 're just shooting a drama poster .
from now until the drama ends ... that bitch sung min ah will be stuck to you throughout !
then would you rather have me wear outfits like a beggar while i film the drama ?
then promise . that you won 't look at that chick first .
instead of a promise i 'll give you an oath .
that 's enough , right ? sung min ah is known for her punctuality , but even if i step on hard , i think we will still be late about 20 minutes .
why are you stepping on ?
go slowly .
what ?
if the main actor kang hyun min is late , even if it 's not 20 minutes but one hour they have to wait .
even if she 's hot these days , is she this drama 's protagonist ? if we praise her all the time and do whatever she wants just because she is an actress , it will spoil her . from the beginning , bam !
we should tame her .
run slowly , kwang soo !
as for the poster 's theme this time , what about this ?
in this mood ... - no , i prefer this one .
will that be ok ?
what ?
what ? sung min ah keeps her appointments as sharply as a knife ?
so , didn 't i tell you to run slowly or what ?
kwang soo ?
i tried to come as slowly as possible , but ...
sung min ah arrived !
hello , director .
oh , cp , hello ! - wow , you look fantastic !
you 're the best .
sorry i 'm a bit late .
no , it 's okay . do the make-up and the shooting will start right away .
yes .
- see you at the shooting studio .
min ah .
seems like you 're not good at keeping appointments .
sorry . then ...
see ?
dejecting her with simple and impact words .
she 's totally dejected .
yes , president .
now almost all actors have been decided , only the date that we start shooting is left .
so this is no lesser than anthony .
it is preposterous , but there is one thing i have to tell you ...
let 's hear it . we may be a bit later that the shooting date that is specified in the contract details , is that going to be alright ?
seeing how meticulously you have done the preparations , that is possible .
don 't pay too much attention to it .
thank you very much !
yes .
see you at the production report conference .
oh , good !
wow , whatever the camera takes is totally like a masterpiece !
it 's killing !
hey , this ... this one ...
good !
good ! oh , min ah , it was a good shot !
okay !
good !
do it properly .
act ... ion !
wow , this one is great , isn 't it , sunbaenim ?
wow , whatever the camera takes is the piece , piece !
you worked hard , director .
well done , well done .
what did i do today ?
this is a piece of cake compared to the upcoming brutal schedule .
but ... you asked for a script change ?
i heard it from the broadcaster .
yes .
i thought it would be better if a few points were amended .
i wish the change to be completed before the script reading session , but writer lee seemed to have a lot of thoughts in her mind .
please talk to her well .
then ... ah , yes , yes .
you can leave .
aish , writer lee , this ...
if she 's asked for a script change , she should revise it ! she 's not yielding again ! sunbaenim ,
i think you should step in here . what do you mean " step in " ?
well , writer lee , that kiddo , she 's quite daring , sometimes . -last time , when director moon ...
she 's not daring , but persevering .
without that much backbone , how can she write scripts ?
no , that ... that ... ah , really ... sunbaenim !
hyung !
kwang soo .
who on earth hired that photographer ?
why ? like a die-for fan of sung min ah , he kept saying min ah , min ah ...
min ah ...
it was so annoying i though i was going to die ! hyung , hyung , hyung !
as you were not at the make-up room , i thought you left .
yes . anyway , since we 're going to spend a lot of time together from now on , let 's get along well .
i 'm sorry . my hands are a bit dirty ...
then ... what was that ?
is she ... ?
is she really refusing the handshake of this superstar , kang hyun min ?
crazy ...
aren 't you disregarding him a bit too much ?
he 's just a puppyish brat who thinks he 's an actor .
he 's not even worth conversing with .
yes , chief producer .
writer lee .
are you in your right mind ?
pardon ?
what do you ... mean ?
sung min ah of all people is asking for a script revision .
why can 't you yield ?
why ?
! no need to talk more . as per sung min ah 's request , change the script .
it doesn 't suit you .
in a building that doesn 't suit you at all and the shabby office ...
did you come to confirm that ?
that writer ...
how is she ?
exactly , the same as you see .
she just has her temper , not compromising .
