valencia , once i put this dress on , you will never envy these puppies again .
get ready .
there ... yep .
♪ i got them heavy boobs , heavy boobs ♪
♪ dense like dying stars , i got them ♪
♪ heavy boobs , heavy boobs ♪
♪ i can 't run real far ♪
♪ let me break down what i just said ♪
♪ each of my double ds ♪
♪ has the volume of a toddler 's head ♪
♪ not bitching ' ' bout my boobies ♪
♪ they look super fly in shirts ♪
♪ but if i swung them in your face ♪
♪ you 'd be like , oh , my god , that hurts ♪
♪ i 'm blind , holy crap ♪
♪ i literally can 't see ♪
♪ i have permanent retinal damage ♪
♪ i 'm suing you and your heavy boobies ♪
♪ heavy boobs , heavy boobs , dense like dying stars ♪
♪ i got them heavy boobs , heavy boobs ♪
- ♪ they each have their own memoirs ♪ - _
♪ what you gotta know is that ♪
♪ boobs may be where it 's at ♪
♪ but if you cut them open ♪
♪ they 're just sacks of yellow fat ♪
♪ stuff falls into my bra ♪
♪ it 's a little bit of a drag ♪
♪ but when i go to bed at night ♪
♪ it 's like opening a mary poppins bag ♪
whee , candy and pennies !
♪ i got them heavy boobs , heavy boobs ♪
♪ dense like dying stars ♪
♪ i got them heavy boobs , heavy boobs ♪
♪ don 't need an air bag in my car ♪
♪ here is a list of all of the objects ♪
♪ that i can hold under my boobs ♪
♪ stapler , ten pencils ♪
♪ paperback copy of arabian nights ♪
♪ dog bone , remote control ♪
♪ hardback copy of wuthering heights ♪
see , when a star is dying , it transforms into a red giant .
and if the red giant does not have enough mass to fuse carbon , an inert mass of carbon and oxygen builds up in the center , transforming into a dense white dwarf .
and yeah , like , that 's my boobs .
that 's ... that 's what my boobs are like .
♪ i got them heavy boobs , heavy boobs ♪
♪ dense like a white dwarf ♪
♪ i got them heavy boobs , heavy boobs ♪
♪ they 'd be a catch at fisherman 's wharf ♪
♪ i got them heavy boobs , heavy boobs ♪
♪ don 't ever forget that ♪
♪ these heavy boobs , heavy boobs ♪ ♪ are just sacks of yellow fat ♪ ♪ like the stuffing of a couch ♪
♪ they 're just sacks of yellow fat ♪
♪ technically meant to feed a baby ♪
♪ they 're just sacks of yellow fat . ♪
i had no idea .
no wonder my boobs are so small .
i have no fat on my body .
see ?
exactly .
problem solved .
now , you try on the dress .
let 's see how it looks with some nice b-cup action in there .
no . i couldn 't .
valencia , you 're going to make a really beautiful bride .
josh is really lucky .
i hope .
i hope some day it is josh and me , i really do .
it will be .
and i 'm so sorry if i did anything to delay that dream .
i appreciate you saying that .
do you mind taking a picture of me ?
just for me .
i want to remember how i looked .
of course .
oh , i got nothing to work with here .
i mean , i 've already hacked into valencia 's e-mails and her texts .
ooh , wait a minute , what 's this ?
a photo stream ?
oh , again .
you with the face .
what do you mean , how did i get valencia 's password ?
you know me .
let 's see what we 've got here .
valencia 's photos ... chocolate cake ... fried chicken ...
oh , she just likes to look at food .
oh , wait a minute , what is this ?
i think that 's jayma 's wedding gown .
you know , i 've ... i 've prayed to god my whole life , and i , and i never knew if she was listening , but ... thank you , big mama .
uh , no wrinkles .
- yeah , or bubbles .
- thank you .
we got this .
it says i have a new like on a photo .
i-i didn 't take a photo , what is this ?
you ruined my wedding .
yeah , bitch .
- how could you ?
- what 's wrong with you ?
# hotterthanthebride ?
i-i-i didn 't do anything .
i didn 't post a photo .
and my hashtags are always positive .
like , # girlboss or # fitspo .
someone must be framing me or something .
what kind of psycho with no life would do such a thing ?
oh , god , paula .
you must have done it .
when i went to the bathroom .
this is why women don 't go to the bathroom alone .
excuse me , miss , i have a bone to pick with you .
i 'm sorry , sir .
can i help you ?
yes , you can .
by helping yourself .
stop chasing after the cartwheeling magician idiot boy , and start paying attention to the guy with the bountiful , beautiful hair , who happens to really care about you .
oh , you 're friends with marty .
i prefer mentor .
ah , well , i 've already told him i 'm not interested .
him continuing to chase after me is a terrible decision , which makes me respect him even less .
i mean , maybe if he backed off and let me come to him , maybe i would think about it .
otherwise , can you tell him to stop with the songs and the texts and the skywriting ?
what did you skywrite ?
lyrics to the song .
cost a fortune .
oh , and it was so windy .
i basically paid for a cloud .
so what 's next , coach ?
what do i do ? what 's my next move ?
i don 't know .
i kind of think we do nothing .
i like that .
like for a day ?
we slow-playing ?
no .
i actually think forever .
i think we got to call this one .
go back to dusting potatoes .
you laugh , but who likes a dusty potato ?
marty , ally 's right .
chasing someone who isn 't into you is a terrible move .
trust me , i feel you .
i 've been there .
you mean you and rebecca bunch .
your friends come in here all the time talking about it .
god , i hate my friends .
yeah , marty , that 's right .
i did that with rebecca .
but watching you do it , i see what a bad call it was .
actually , i 'm realizing , i make a lot of bad calls ...
in everything .
yeah , me , too .
and i think we 're the same .
i mean , i work here in a grocery store , even though i went to harvard .
the harvard of what ?
just harvard .
in boston .
your decisions are just the worst .
look , i already deleted it , so don 't worry .
and we only got one like and it was from ...
omg , it 's from maxim 's hometown hotties .
i 'm telling you , it was rebecca .
she 's been " single white femaling " me since she got here .
valencia ...
you take one step closer , and i 'm getting a restraining order ,
jennifer jason leigh .
what i was going to say was , um ...
you were right .
yep , it was me .
yeah .
it was my idea for valencia to put on the wedding dress , and then when i saw her in it , i-i got jealous .
and so i , uh , i stole her phone and i posted the picture .
i 'm sorry .
i don 't believe you .
only someone crazy and sad would do that .
um , yeah , and i 'm both those things , so i 'm , um , i 'm sorry .
valencia , i 'm sorry we accused you .
rebecca , you should go .
yep .
good-bye , chans .
before you start , you don 't have to buy me champagne or a fur coat ; just a simple thank you will suffice .
paula .
valencia 's password was so easy .
valencia1 .
i mean , come on .
paula !
just get in my office .
i told you not to do anything .
wait , what ?
i mean , why didn 't you listen to me ?
oh , my god , why didn 't i listen to you ?
because if i listen to you , nothing would ever happen with josh .
no thanksgiving , no camp .
no kiss .
you , you didn 't do all that by yourself .
and every time you said , " no , paula , don 't do anything . "
and then i did anyway , and you were happy .
wow , yeah , you 're right .
okay , that 's the way it used to be , but it 's not like that anymore , okay ?
no .
paula , listen to me .
i 'm done with josh .
oh , come on , i saw you .
you can 't even throw away the macaroni portrait .
- i threw it away .
everything 's gone . - even channy bear .
yeah .
channy bear sleeps with the fishes .
nope .
i can 't give up on josh .
he 's not yours to give up on .
why are you so hung up on this ?
it 's for you .
it-it 's to make you happy .
no , it 's not , because i just told ...
it 's because ...
if we 're not chasing josh , then you 're not going to want to hang out with me anymore .
i know it .
what ?
no .
paula , no .
that 's not true .
yes . yes , it is .
he 's our glue .
he 's what holds us together , and ...
i 've barely seen you this week at all .
paula , i love you .
okay , you know that .
but we have to stop .
it 's not good for me .
you and i will always be friends , okay , i promise .
but we don 't need josh chan .
because i don 't need him .
hey . hi . i 'm sorry , i , um , i needed somewhere to drink , and i thought , i thought you 'd be at school .
you 're here .
what 'll it be ?
it 's last call .
i guess , i don 't know , i 'll take some alcohol .
do you know any alcohol names ?
yes .
i will take a peach schnapps on the rocks ?
no , never mind .
never order drinks again .
i 'll make you something .
that 's a lot of books you got there .
yeah , i 'm trying this really new radical approach to studying ...
it 's called studying .
wow . is it working ?
really well .
this is perfect .
what is this ?
it 's this really exotic drink called the gin and tonic .
well , i 've never heard of a gin and tonic before , but i think it 's gonna be really big .
i 'm sending in the patent .
hey , what are you doing after this ?
do you want to , like , i don 't know , go to another bar , get a drink , or hang out at my place , or ...
what happened ?
did you and josh get in a fight ...
is that what 's going on ?
and you need a shoulder to cry on ?
so you come to greg , ' cause that 's what i do .
no , that 's not what this is .
rebecca , i would really love to hang out with you ,
i would , but i know what that leads to for me .
and i can 't .
i can 't be in second place again with you .
great .
um , good to know .
i 'm ... i 'm gonna go .
i 'm gonna go .
greg ?
oh , josh , i thought you were someone else , i ...
what did you do ?
y-y-you hacked into valencia 's phone ?
y-you said you were trying to keep your distance from me , a-and then you do this ?
this is how you make it up to valencia ?
okay , josh , it 's a long story , but all that matters is
valencia is now beloved by your family
- and i 'm out of the bridal party .
- yeah , but ...
josh , focus on your girlfriend and on your family , okay ?
and the next time you want to come and talk to me , don 't just show up at my door .
oh ... okay .
yeah , okay , cool .
um , so could you go ?
i-i-i have something i need to do .
are you kicking me out ?
lil ' bit .
bye , josh .
i 'm sorry , channy bear .
hey , what 's going on ?
you okay ?
what ...
no , i c ... i-i can 't do this .
i-i can 't eat a dusty potato .
oh , god , is that what i taste like ?
i mean , i , i ate a , an old french fry off the floor of my car , but i sh ...
it 's a metaphor .
wa ... you did what ?
it doesn 't matter .
no , good god , stop , woman .
greg , listen to me .
this isn 't about anyone else but you .
you 're not second choice .
i promise .
listen , if this is going to happen , - you need to know something . - okay .
this isn 't going to be like a roll in the hay and you go home .
this is going to be like three days of you and me just ruining each other .
and not emotionally .
is that what you want ?
when do we start ?
i 'm so glad we 're finally doing this .
me , too .
i mean , there 's so many girls i could have brought here , like a whole bunch , but i chose you , ashley .
- it 's ally .
- don 't care .
can we have sex now ? yay .
oh , my god .
you 're an idiot .
and you 're horrible .
why do i always make the same mistake over and over again ?
i make terrible decisions .
i go for the lowest form of man because i 'm afraid to be with someone i might actually connect with .
you know what ? screw this .
i 'm going back to nursing school .
wait , do you want me to do another cartwheel ?
i 'm-i 'm-i 'm good at those .
whatever .
she 'll be back .
they always come back .
and now behind the wall , the making of colony ...
my fellow colonists , welcome to day 341 of our occupation .
our choice is clear .
resist or die .
- roll sound !
- take marker .
action !
colony , usa network 's blockbuster original series , is one of the most anticipated new shows of the year .
we came up with this idea of setting an occupation
- in modern day los angeles .
- it 's current .
it 's as if this happened now .
legendary television , part of the studio that produced godzilla and pacific rim , and universal cable productions , the studio behind the acclaimed original series , mr. robot , have teamed up with creators , carlton cuse ,
emmy award-winning producer of lost and writer of the hit film , san andreas , and ryan condal , screenwriter of hercules , to bring you this compelling story of resistance and collaboration .
to be here , bringing it to life , and to see the scope and scale , it 's the most awesome part of the process .
over the next half hour , you 'll get an inside , behind-the-scenes look at this intriguing new series , including interviews with the creators and cast ...
i tend to like a big story that i can 't even figure out myself .
... exclusive footage from the set and a sneak peek at the unique and amazing world imagined by the creators and crew .
they don 't know this yet , so just between you and me , you know , and whoever is watchin ' , we 'll let them know .
this is colony-- behind the wall .
get down !
you , come here !
what is this ?
what are you doing ?
- come here !
- i haven 't done anything !
you can 't do this , please !
colony is a story about occupied los angeles .
it 's about family .
it centers around my family and our struggle to survive .
there 's been this mysterious invasion by this very advanced outside party , and we don 't really know who they are , and they 've put up these giant 300-foot walls .
it 's kind of a family espionage thriller , but with some science fiction elements .
what would you do , put in this situation ?
what would you do for your children ?
what would you do for humanity ?
who come-who comes first ?
colony is the brainchild of creators and executive producers ,
carlton cuse and ryan condal .
ryan and carlton are this kind of amazing dynamic duo .
carlton and i are both huge syfy fans , but we 're also big fans of history .
and one of the things that we both were fascinated by was paris , during nazi occupation .
we looked at a bunch of photos , and you would see these parisians , well-dressed , sitting in sidewalk cafes , sipping espressos , while nazi stormtroopers were going by in the street .
we thought that was a really interesting and incongruous image , that people were trying so hard to kind of keep the normalcy of their lives under this incredibly repressive regime .
it just fascinated us , and we wondered ,
" well , what would that look like in-in our city , where-where we both live ? "
and we talked to legendary about it .
they loved it .
we set it up with usa .
and then we made the pilot last year .
and now , here we are , making a series .
legendary makes their first foray into television drama , with colony , and brings together a stellar cast , led by josh holloway of lost .
carlton called me , like ,
" i have an offer you can 't refuse . "
and sarah wayne callies of the walking dead .
it 's a story i believe in .
it 's a character that i 've never seen before .
the acclaimed cast also includes three-time emmy winner , kathy baker , of picket fences ,
peter jacobson of house ,
amanda righetti of the mentalist ,
true detective 's tory kittles ,
carl weathers of rocky fame ...
apollo creed !
... and paul guilfoyle of csi .
we feel like we 've really got some great actors on our show .
we were kinda just with the characters .
we 're sort of seeing the world through their eyes .
you have this world in which these people , who maybe were neighbors at one time , find themselves at odds with each other .
let me go !
one of the things about reading the script , it made me think about , how far you 'd be willing to go to resist .
it was a pilot that was about family , and about people making really , really difficult choices .
for people to come back , week to week , it all begins and ends with the characters .
everything has suddenly been heightened , and the choices that you make , who you side with , who you choose to trust , who trusts you , become massively important for your day-to-day survival .
it 's a political environment .
everything you do has a political component .
throughout human history , we 've either occupied someone , or been occupied by someone else .
it 's shocking what human beings will do in these situations .
what would you do to survive ?
what are the compromises you would make ?
what are the things that you would be capable of doing ?
good morning .
good morning .
you stink .
and you , you stink .
at the center of the show , is the bowmann family .
will is a former fbi agent , forced underground by the occupation .
all the people who were police , and authority figures , military , was wiped out during the arrival , and will was smart enough to go underground .
he and his wife , katie , must navigate this new world , where freedom no longer exists , and the consequences for disobedience are deadly .
get up !
let 's go .
their relationship is already complicated .
they have true love at the core .
yet , they 've lost a child .
will and katie have three kids , but only two of them are living with them right now , ' cause their son , charlie , was caught on the other side of the wall when these mysterious invaders showed up .
and that 's fracturing the family in various ways .
it 's bad enough he 's gone , but to see you every day hating me for it .
i don 't hate you for it .
will and katie are desperate to get their kid back .
and so , will hired this guy to smuggle him into santa monica , to rescue charlie .
you 'll be my 38th run .
you got nothin ' to worry about .
hop in .
you have entered the exclusion zone .
remain inside your vehicle until otherwise directed .
my box kills x-ray and thermal .
they 'll never know we were here .
freeze !
hands where we can see them !
- get ' em up !
- move , now !
- stay where you are !
- on your knees !
keep ' em up !
put your hands behind your head !
medic !
get me a medic , now !
coming up , on colony-- behind the wall ...
find out how the show 's creators built the world of occupied los angeles utilizing firsthand accounts ...
juan , our director , grew up in argentina , under a dictatorship .
... state of the art effects technology .
story always comes first .
the visual effects are a way to augment and help tell that story .
... and good , old-fashioned hollywood magic .
hey !
where is my phone call ?
- let me out !
- i want my phone call .
- step back !
- i need to call my wife .
agh !
occupied los angeles is a world very much like our own ...
there 's blue sky .
there 's palm trees .
there 's good weather .
... with some eerie differences .
there 's an unscalable wall that surrounds the city .
show creators , production designers , and visual effects specialists combine with cast and crew to bring this incredible world to life .
colony is this kinda wonderful blend of-of elements that give you a-a really unique look on what life in los angeles would be like if we were actually occupied .
this world 's just that ten percent different enough to really kind of make you sit back and say , " whoa .
what-what 's happened here ? "
the show picks up nearly a year after the arrival .
a cataclysmic invasion that changed everything .
every defense apparatus was wiped out within eight hours .
all of a sudden ,
los angeles and its millions of citizens , their lives were completely turned upside down .
many were killed , many were taken away .
one of the first things that happened after the arrival is , pretty much all the cars went away .
so , this is a very different los angeles .
a lot of people are on foot or riding bicycles , so it has this very kind of parisian feel to the city .
we tried to kinda come up with this idea that beauty and oppression could co-exist .
you know , los angeles could look pretty and inviting , but , at the same time , it 's clearly now a hostile environment .
what 's great about what carlton and ryan have done in the concept , is just that idea of isolating it , fencing in groups of people , creates this tension .
slowly , but surely , you 're feeling what it is to be oppressed .
i 'm a stickler for the-for the logic of , uh , of the occupation , and of a dictatorship , and how this mentality works .
i grew up in argentina , uh , during the ' 70s , where we had a dictatorship .
a very-- a-a pretty rough one , but that a lot of the society was for it .
and i can see that happening very easily in america .
was an explosion at the santa monica gateway , yesterday .
it was the resistance .
- those terrorists wounded at least ten people .
- thank you .
who knows how many more they killed ?
we were going for a look that had a much more documentary style .
we really wanted to make it look and feel very real .
that this could really be happening .
it 's very handheld , and , you know , many times , we-we staged the scene , without any specific instructions to the camera operators .
and then we just put , you know , the three cameras , as if they were a news team that are covering the scene for the first time .
uh , so it feels very immediate , very real .
the production designer is in charge of the look of the tv show .
i 'm responsible for all of the things in front of the camera .
from building the sets to decorating the sets .
the sets are beautiful , which , right away , for an actor , that puts you in a good place .
so , the yonk is my bar .
this bar .
the yonk is short for yoknapatawpha , which took me some time to learn how to say .
- thank you , ryan .
- i love the yonk .
it 's kind of a bar that has a southern vibe to it .
it definitely feels real .
oh , well , look who made it after all !
oh , you think i 'd miss the opportunity to drink publicly for the first time in 11 months ?
as a designer , i was kind of excited about all of the kinda graphic qualities to it .
resistance posters , and posters that are more like pro-occupation .
by the visuals of what we put on the screen , we 're telling the audience where you are .
the visual effects are a huge part , uh , of this show .
we have this tremendous visual effects partner , in ghost , who is our , uh , visual effects studio , out of , uh , copenhagen , in denmark .
they visualized an amazing pilot .
our walls , the 300-foot walls that surround los angeles , are an entirely digital creation , as are the drones that patrol the skies .
yeah , the drones are-- th-they are little characters of their own right .
th-they are , essentially , acting .
they 're in patrol mode , in seek and destroy mode .
in modes that we don 't know what they 're really thinking .
even though they 're mechanical , and they 're just whizzing around , you 'll actually see , they have different personalities .
ryan geeks out on all the science fiction stuff .
like , he was showing me pictures of drones , and we were jumping up and down like children .
you know , it was like , yes !
i 've always wanted to be in battlestar galactica , and , like , star wars , and all these amazing shows , and we get to do stuff like that .
the most difficult thing for actors is trying to imagine elements such as drones that they 've never even seen .
and my role is to assist them to imagine this world .
we need to make sure that eye lines are correct , and they are actually looking at a drone that is somewhere that we 're not seeing in real life .
so , it 's especially challenging on a blue screen , or a green screen as well .
the toughest thing is , really , it 's the cars .
los angeles is a very busy city .
well known for , uh , its greatest export ,
- which is traffic .
- to clean up these roads , and to make it look like we 're in a no-car environment , is really , really difficult .
so , we lock down lanes of traffic as much as possible .
we pick off little pieces from our plate shots that don 't have traffic in them , and it 's a really painful process of painting them out .
- fire in the hole !
- action !
today is probably the-- one of the biggest shots .
we 're gonna have bullet hits .
uh , alien drones whizzing in from the background .
next week , we 're , uh , blowing up an entire house .
each week , we get more and more exciting effects .
coming up , on colony-- behind the wall , we 'll explore occupied los angeles , and discover the challenges faced by its citizens .
if you 're resourceful and clever , you can survive this occupation .
both the collaborators ...
there 's no victory to be had against these people .
what there is , is compromise .
... and the resistance .
there 's a lot of fear and consternation goin ' on .
that 's a good word , " consternation . "
consternation in-in the colony .
i like it .
as you dig deeper into colony , you 'll discover the oppressive new world under which the citizens of los angeles are forced to live .
there 's no communication .
there 's no internet .
there 's no cell phone service .
there 's no information that goes outside of these walls .
i 'm lookin ' for will bowmann .
are you will bowmann ?
sullivan .
ahh !
not anymore .
los angeles is now under martial law .
a giant wall separates the city into three blocks , each administered by a proxy government .
there 's santa monica , there 's the los angeles block , and there 's the san fernando valley block .
- where are you taking me ?
- green zone .
in the la block , where our characters live , you either live in the flats or you live in the green zone .
the green zone is the more privileged area , where the people that collaborate with the transitional authority live .
the hollywood hills and bel air , all those houses have been taken over and are occupied by the new elite .
they 're leading very nice , luxurious lives , whereas the regular citizens are not .
they 're subject to rations and repression .
the show sort of explores that dichotomy .
i 'm the proxy governor of our little block here .
why am i here ?
to turn crisis into opportunity .
i take question with the fact that he 's a bad guy .
he collaborates with a clean conscience because i think that snyder believes truly that he is a force for good change .
wait-wait-wait .
hold on .
you can 't-- ahh !
after the arrival , the occupation government established their own police force , which the citizens refer to as the red house .
they run ads , just like army ads . they 're tryin ' to recruit people to control other people .
there 's a military curfew in effect every night .
the things that you used to take for granted , like walking down the street to go get a cup of coffee , are not so easy anymore .
you don 't know , at any given moment , whether you might get hauled out of your house and taken away , never to be seen again .
my brother got sent up .
the factory .
what is the factory they keep talking about ?
is it a concentration camp ?
nobody really knows what the factory is , or what it 's making , but what we do know is , is that people who go to the factory don 't ever come back .
in opposition to this new totalitarian regime , stands the resistance .
a shadowy group of fighters led by the mysterious geronimo .
the resistance wants very much to end this occupation .
these are just everyday men and women whose lives have been turned upside down .
people are willing to risk their lives to make change .
- a revolution .
- down !
how big is the resistance ?
who runs it ?
what 's their grand plan ?
how organized are they ?
those are all mysteries that are a part of the show .
our hosts are tired of the insurgency .
you want me to collaborate .
infiltrate the insurgency and bring us their leader .
does he agree with resisting ?
yes , but they 're going about it in the wrong way .
they 're getting innocent people killed .
amidst these warring factions ,
will and katie struggle to keep their family safe .
they try to live their life the way they had before it was ripped out from under them .
family in a world like this takes on a new primacy .
madeline 's living with them , her sister .
and hudson , madeline 's son .
for maddie , finding insulin for her son is-is one of the biggest challenges .
certain conditions are deemed unworthy for treatment .
diabetes is one of ' em .
this has to be kept cold .
it 's way too hot in here .
what do you think you 're doin ' ?
- i 'm not buying insulin .
- a trade is a trade !
whether it 's trying to buy something on the black market , or whether it 's being out at the wrong place after the curfew sirens sound , the world is full of all these perils that never existed before ,
and our characters are trying to navigate their way through this and survive .
if you can 't help me , then you and your wife , and your children , you 'll all be sent to the factory .
the most important day in human history is coming .
i just want you and your family to be on the right side of it .
the audience will learn more about who these mysterious invaders are , what they want , what they 're up to , what their powers are .
there are all these sort of layers to the show that will be explored over time .
coming up , find out how the cast answers the question , collaborate or resist ?
i don 't know if i would have the courage to risk my children .
and the creators give us a special sneak peek of a scene from the premiere episode .
- don 't tell him .
- yeah .
don 't- - just because he asked nicely doesn 't mean
- you 're gonna tell .
- keep watching .
cameras and marker .
actor number two , action !
colony , usa network 's new original series , is a high-stakes drama about surviving in a new world .
it 's an old human story , but this is unlike any enemy we 've faced before .
these characters , they come up against all sorts of dilemmas about , what are some of the compromises that we need to make in order to survive ?
who are you , deep down ?
what kind of character do you have ?
and what would you do for your family ?
the characters in colony must walk the fine line between collaboration and resistance .
nothing and no one is what they seem .
you don 't know who to trust .
we lie to everyone .
we lie to protect ourselves .
why are they collaborating ?
what is at stake for them ?
and that is the beauty of this show .
it 's a character-driven study of perspectives .
and now , here 's an exclusive sneak peek at a scene from colony .
please , no !
no !
get off me !
get off !
usa network , legendary television , and creators and executive producers ,
carlton cuse and ryan condal , have created the next great television drama .
all great stories are , at their core , human stories .
we get to take a fantastic universe and use it to examine the contemporary issues of our own world .
it 's about humans battling humans .
it 's about the things we 're capable of doing to each other .
it focuses on that unbreakable family bond .
big , heavy , moral decisions .
revolution .
we 're not telling you who 's right and who 's wrong .
there 's no black and white hats .
there are red hats .
kind of end up with this bit of a casablanca story .
it 's this crossroads of the world , where different people from all walks ,
occupation , and resistance .
and then the people that are just caught in between , trying to survive .
hopefully , it 'll put yourself in the shoes of our characters and our show , and you 'll wanna ask the fundamental questions .
like , would i collaborate ?
would i be in the resistance ?
what lies outside the la block ?
is the world destroyed ?
it 's all a mystery , and that 's the fun of the show .
these are things we 'll have to discover .
all of this , it 's temporary .
once they 've satisfied their needs , they 'll leave .
what needs ?
colony premieres thursday , january 14th , at 10 / 9 central , only on usa .
the time has come to make your choice .
do you collaborate or resist ?
that 's a heavy question .
it 's easy for anybody to sit and say ,
" i 'd do this " or " i 'd do that . "
- i resist . - i might collaborate , if i got to make television shows .
i would like to think that i would resist .
i would really take my time to make that decision .
i may be a huge coward .
i have no idea .
when ya can 't beat ' em , join ' em .
collaborate and die .
i would do whatever it took to save my family .
anything .
finding a job where you get to work side by side with your friends can be the best .
it can also be the worst .
i came in with two friends !
thank you !
my name is cooper barrett .
my friends and i are here to mess up our lives so you don 't have to .
_
- yeah !
- yeah !
- to our success .
- mm .
ah .
- hey .
- hey , how 'd you know i was here ?
what are you talking about ?
you 're always here .
what 's the occasion ?
oh , uh , their hangover cure was just named " best new specialty beverage "
because of us , everyone from your casual chardonnay sipper to your hardened alcoholic is waking up to a better american morning .
this is how dr. penicillin must have felt when he created the what-cha-ma-call-it .
there are so many things wrong with that statement .
- who are you looking for ?
- i was hoping my girl kelly would be here so we could hang out , ' cause , you know , we have a thing .
oh , like a patty from college thing ?
no , there can never be another patty .
that thing was like a powder keg .
kelly and i are just , you know , we 're besties .
- hi .
- who 's that ?
i would like to introduce you all to my new girlfriend , ramona .
howdy , y 'all . nice to meet you .
let me guess .
texas ?
no , but kelly bet me ten bucks
i couldn 't do the accent .
she can .
i 'm actually from london .
- oh , really ?
- nope .
orange county .
you owe me another ten .
oh , god , you 're so good at accents !
what the hell is going on ?
nice to meet you . i 'm , uh , cooper barrett .
ramona .
- cooper ?
- yeah .
- can i talk with you for a sec ?
- sure . sorry .
- knock it off .
- what did i do ?
you just used your " i want to sleep with you " voice .
" hi . i 'm cooper barrett . "
i sound like optimus prime ?
you are not to sleep with her .
what ?
'cause of ... ' cause of this .
this ?
there 's no this .
- so i can sleep with her .
- no !
listen .
solid girlfriends do not come easy to me , and i don 't want you and your penis messing it up .
okay , first of all , she hasn 't even expressed any interest .
and second , if she did , and i went through with it , i hope you know i respect you enough to never tell you about it .
fine , i won 't sleep with her . thank you .
hi . i 'm cooper barrett .
hi . i 'm cooper barrett .
hi . i 'm cooper barrett .
- hi .
- there it is .
_
pretty great , right ?
can 't buy publicity like that . free sample .
oh , thanks . this makes it seem like you run the company by yourself . yeah , you don 't even mention us one time in this whole thing .
" barry 's grandma 's hangover cure , " not cooper 's .
your grandma hasn 't been hungover a day in her life !
come on , guys , let 's focus on the big picture , all right ?
that company , hangender , won this award three years in a row , and we just beat them . it 's not about individual credit . plus , i would have sung your praises
- if i was given the opportunity .
- " when asked how he was able
" to accomplish so much , he credited the inspiration of steve jobs and a good night 's sleep . "
yeah , you 're right . that was my window , i blew it .
- i 'm sorry . i ...
- " and later , he wished to thank
" his two best friends : hard work
- and determination . "
- oh , guys , i messed up .
but it was a phone interview . i mean , you guys know i value you and your ideas .
yeah , hold that thought .
get your free sample .
barry 's grandma 's hangover cure ?
- i 've heard that stuff 's made in an apartment , and you can taste pig feces .
what ?
where 'd you hear that ?
" barry 's grandma 's hangover cure is made in an apartment with pig feces . "
that 's simply untrue .
i mean , he hasn 't had an accident in weeks .
i mean , if they would have said pig urine ...
there 's comments from this coopersucks person all over the net .
obviously , the person who 's posting this has inside information , so they can do serious damage to our business , if they haven 't already .
okay , so how do we find out who this coopersucks69 is ?
i 'm one step ahead of you , sir .
i 've traced the ip address , and it looks like it 's someone ... in our apartment building .
- what do you want ?
- hey , virgil .
uh ... someone 's been trolling barry 's grandma 's hangover cure online .
uh , you wouldn 't happen to know anything about that , would you ?
what is ... trolling ?
uh , it means people are making fun of us on the internet .
ooh . which site do i do that ?
we 're not telling you to do that .
oh , i 'll find out .
i have so many " barry 's grandma 's so fat " jokes .
what ?
!
do you really think mrs. billingsly is our troll ?
she 's , like , 90 years old .
well , we have to cross everyone in the building off our list .
you know what ?
i haven 't seen her in a few weeks . come to think of it , neither have i .
well , at least she led a good life .
actually , i think she collaborated in the armenian genocide . but still , neat lady .
i don 't get it . we 've checked every apartment .
well , not every apartment .
i can 't believe it .
i never would 've suspected it .
what are you guys doing in my apartment ?
welcome home ...
kelly .
or should we say , coopersucks69 ?
wait .
were the first 68 coopersucks already taken ?
this is impossible .
had anyone else in your apartment recently ?
- any male visitors , perhaps ?
- or poltergeists ?
i seen this episode of ghost hunters where this one ghost went into this one dude 's account and messed up his credit . spooky .
no guys or ghosts have been in my apartment .
i 'm the only one who uses this computer .
oh , and ramona .
wait , wait , wait , hold up . say ramona 's last name is miller .
- right ?
- you 're already forgetting her name .
you slept with her , didn 't you ? !
- you said she was a trainer ?
- yeah . so ?
because ramona miller is not a personal trainer .
she is the president and ceo of hangender , our main competitor .
what ?
she clearly saw us as a threat , posed to be your friend , just to get info about us to try to take us down !
to think , i almost slept with her .
come to think of it , she was asking a lot of questions about your company .
why the hell you tell her about our pig feces ?
why are you living in an apartment with pig feces ?
it 's stinking up the entire building .
i think that smell was mrs. billingsly .
what happened to mrs. billingsly ?
honey ,
- i 'm so sorry .
- oh , my god !
i lose two of my best girlfriends in one day ? i 'm gonna punch ramona in her lying , flawless face !
best plan is to get even .
i have an idea how to do that .
so do i , so what we do is ...
we all listen to neal because i value his ideas .
- really ?
- mm-hmm .
thanks , coop .
okay , kelly , first , you 're gonna take ramona out to brunch .
but don 't let on that you know who she really is .
sorry . you 're doing great .
just pretend like it 's a normal brunch . and then i punch her in the face .
no . you make witty conversation .
so , tell me about all that personal training
- that you definitely do for a living .
- oh , you know ,
- lots of burpees , that sort of thing .
- oh .
will you excuse me ?
i have to go to the bathroom really quick .
and then when she 's not paying attention , you take her computer and pass it off to barry in disguise .
- fake mustache and tuxedo ?
- no !
cooper , be supportive . yes , barry , like that , but , you know , something better .
got it .
barry , you 'll go to the kitchen where you 'll find me and cooper waiting .
- what is he doing here ?
- i 'm meeting leslie next door for lunch . i heard you guys were hiding in the kitchen .
- by the way , it 's me , barry .
- i know .
- you look like neil degrasse tyson .
- interesting .
- just like the milky way .
- come on , neal .
hurry up ! got to get it before she gets back from the restroom .
she should really update this thing .
- i mean , os 7 ? total noob .
- neal !
got the data . all right . out .
all we have to do is return it before ramona gets back .
unless josh 's wife comes by , notices kelly , and ruins the entire plan .
welcome to my life .
- kelly !
- leslie !
i thought i saw you .
hey .
you know what ? i 'm glad i 'm running into you , because i feel like we need to reconnect .
why is ... ? what-what is she doing here ?
leslie , you remember ramona , right ?
hi .
you didn 't answer my question .
please go do something .
i mean , i 'm ...
i 'm gonna meet my husband . we 're gonna go have brunch
- next door .
- go .
socially , you know ,
- i 'm pretty covered .
- hey , babe !
- oh .
hi .
- what are you doing here ?
i was just walking by , saw you ladies chatting it up .
uh , look at that . shoelace is untied .
- dangerous . there it is .
- yeah .
so you guys , like , hang out all the time ?
nope , wasn 't untied .
it was actually tied the whole time .
- thank god . - we should go . we got a res .
- right , yeah .
- bouncedy-bounce .
yeah , okay , bye .
just so you know , 37 followers on instagram , so , you know , super popular .
- she doesn 't care .
- okay .
and once we successfully
- put it back in ramona 's bag ...
- bye !
... go through her data , cancel her orders , and later , cooper will call to contact her clients .
well , i am sorry to hear that they canceled , but we have a vehicle in your area which can get our product to you within the hour .
all right , thanks so much .
bye-bye .
- oh , yeah .
- mm . can you believe it ? your plan worked .
yeah , cooper , i can believe it .
can you believe that our nearest star , alpha centauri , is only four light years away ?
can i just say , i am really enjoying your neil degrasse tyson .
it is fun and informative .
you know what else is fun ?
the milky way .
no , you already used that one .
pluto is one-third water . there he is !
this fancy hotel looks a lot like a biker bar .
it 's like an episode of sons of anarchy that doesn 't end well .
i 'm pretty sure there is no episodes of sons of anarchy
- i 'm telling you , this is the address listed on ramona 's work order .
this is cooper .
hey , cooper .
this is ramona miller .
- i 'm actually ...
- the president and ceo
- of hangender . i know exactly who ...
- who i am ?
i know that you know , but here 's something you don 't know .
that order you took from me was a fake .
- what order ?
- moron , give it up . i 've been one step ahead of you this whole time .
you may be easy on the eyes , but that doesn 't mean that you know how to run a business .
first rule is , don 't ever work with your friends .
second rule is shut up .
you 're obviously flailing here . let me put you out of your misery and buy your company from you .
you didn 't listen to the second rule .
hmm .
we 've been set up .
let 's get out of here before we get ourselves killed .
yep .
that was a close one .
okay . hi . there 's so many of you .
okay .
- hi , guys . hi .
- uh , okay .
hey , guys .
what are you doing ?
they gonna kill us anyway .
- he 's not with us !
- sorry !
my mustache fell off when they threw me through that window .
mercury has ...
damn !
all my space facts are gone , neal !
okay .
tell me everything .
did you rub it in ramona 's face yet ?
uh , things didn 't exactly work out .
ramona tricked us into going to a biker bar , and ...
come on , cooper .
tell everybody what you 're really thinking .
what am i really thinking ?
" uh , the reason i don 't listen to your ideas , neal , is " because the one time that i do , we get outsmarted by a rival " and thrown through a window .
" maybe , neal , instead of complaining " that you don 't get enough credit , you should acknowledge
" that i 'm the brains of the operation . just sit your nerdy face down in front of a computer ! "
- easy , cooper .
- " and you , you big bastard , get your ass back in the kitchen and handle the product ! "
you know what , cooper , you 've gone too far !
i 'm out !
- i hope you 're happy .
- i didn 't even say anything .
okay , i don 't even know who 's yelling at who here , but we need to focus on ramona .
so there 's no truth to what i said ?
- well , it was your plan . but ...
- oh , my god .
some words you can 't take back , cooper !
you have to go after neal .
don 't you see ?
dividing you guys like this , this is exactly ramona 's plan .
okay .
i think you 're giving her a little too much credit .
- hey , neal .
- oh , my god .
i heard you 're unhappy with cooper .
mm . yeah , it 's not going well .
you should 've heard the things he said to me .
you know that i think you 're incredibly impressive and that i value what you do .
thank you .
what is it that i do ?
the viral marketing .
your web site . the entire database you set up was brilliant .
your idea for pajama tuesdays .
full disclosure , i just didn 't feel like wearing clothes that day .
we could really use your skills at hangender . and ... this would be your starting salary .
i 'm sorry , is this some sort of joke ?
i mean , cooper and i are best friends .
i 'm not gonna let one little petty f ...
this is hangender .
- you 've reached neal fissley 's office .
- oh , louise ?
can you confirm my massage will be on a table and not one of those airport chairs ?
and , uh , i 'm out of lollipops , so ... thank you .
i can 't let her get away with taking neal .
i 'll help you get her back , but it could get ugly .
she pulls a knife , you pull a gun .
she puts one of yours in the hospital , you put one of hers in the morgue .
oh , i 've been dying to use that line from the untouchables since ' 87 . may not have been worth it .
it 's not about revenge , okay ? it 's about business .
and if i want to succeed , i got to beat ramona at her own game .
well , what are you prepared to do , cooper ?
- that 's not helpful . - welcome to the rock .
- hello , ramona .
- hey , cooper .
if you 're looking for a job , i 'm afraid neal 's
- already hired an assistant .
- that 's not why i 'm here .
oh , good , because the girl who got the job
- is way more qualified than you .
- if you 're done ,
i have a little proposal for you :
you give me neal back , and i 'll forgive the attack on my company and i promise
counterproposal :
i keep neal , bankrupt your company , and you come back to my place and we get rid of the sexual tension between us .
interesting idea .
let me consider / fantasize about that for a second .
not gonna lie , that was amazing . but i still have to reject your offer .
that 's too bad .
i have lots of mirrors , and i had a terrible childhood .
listen , ramona , you have no idea what you 're up against .
i think i have a pretty good idea .
you may have neal , but i have a better product .
and i still have barry sandel .
hi , barry .
i wanted to discuss ... look , i know why you 're here and i 'm not interested .
but if you could just hear me out for one second , i think ...
it 's my grandmother 's sweat and tears in this cure , okay ?
literally . that 's the two main ingredients .
look , i know cooper likes to hog all the credit and he called me a big bastard , but at the end of the day , we are still friends .
our break room has a milkshake machine .
this is hangender . barry sandel 's office . hangender rules !
totally .
louise !
why am i seeing the bottom of my lollipop jar ?
- thank you . - all right , josh , let 's get ugly .
coyote ugly .
it was on after the untouchables .
weird double feature .
starz is the best .
- all right , let 's go .
- yeah .
it 's not gonna work .
- we should 've gone with my plan .
- oh , yeah . three stink bombs and a " ramona sucks ! " banner .
you know what , we 'll do that right after we tp her house and leave a bag of poo on the front step .
i love that . one tweak : fire .
what 's going on ?
just whipping up tons of the cure for bev con .
it 's a beverage conference .
we already have a better product and if we can outsell ramona at bev con , her company will be destroyed and our company 's rise will be documented in the next little-seen aaron sorkin film .
" our company " ?
you 're the only one left in your company . okay , i don 't need those guys . i was doing everything anyway .
i can 't read barry 's writing . does this say " cinnamon " or " cyanide " ?
you should probably just assume cinnamon .
oh , oh , oh . check it out .
♪ dun , dun , dun ♪
- jelly beans .
- oh .
what 's in this one ?
gummy worms !
josh , can we just focus ?
i need you to ... chop up 400 onions and then , uh , throw half of them away .
- what ?
- it 's barry 's process , so ...
cooper , the reason you got into this company is so you could build something great with your friends .
maybe you should go and apologize .
it 's too late .
they made their choice .
i came here because cooper is too stubborn ...
what ?
!
i came here because cooper is too stubborn to tell you how much he needs you guys .
and you need him .
i don 't need anything except for my milkshakes delivered freezing cold !
i 'm talking 32 degrees fahrenheit , scottie , okay ?
that 's fahrenheit !
- son of a bitch .
- guys ,
ramona doesn 't value your ideas .
she just brought you here to undermine cooper .
i went and looked at your offices ... you don 't even have computers !
yeah , ' cause our assistants take dictation ... of our lunch orders and our dreams and cool inventions that we have .
hey , kelly .
nice to see you .
oh ...
that 's the spirit .
ramona , kelly seems to you think that we 're just pawns and that you actually don 't value our ideas . that 's ridiculous .
okay , name one of them .
um ...
like the commercial we did about the girls in bikinis talking to girls in bikinis . bikini-bikini .
no . that 's terrible .
- i worked two days on that .
- that was cream of the crop .
okay , fine , you 're pawns .
but you 're well-paid pawns with offices and assistants .
kelly .
due to recent events , this milkshake has become less delicious .
it 's still a free milkshake .
that 's true .
- you guys are worse than cooper .
- what ?
!
and he 's the worst .
- huh ?
!
- huh ?
!
cures your hangover .
yes , hangender ends the hang in the hangover , in the hangover .
- hangender !
hangender !
- hey , guys .
you 're doing great .
just stay in cooper 's eyeline and remember ...
don 't talk to anybody .
don 't touch anything .
perfect .
barry 's grandma 's hangover cure is made from an age-old recipe .
comes straight from a real grandmother who used to get hungover quite a bit , so ...
okay , just , uh ...
so how many cases do you guys want ?
uh ...
guys , i 'm really going to need you to step it up .
we 're working for free . and i 'm drunk from the hard lemonade booth .
would you like brochures ?
you were right .
i 'll be right back .
hey , guys . just , uh , wanted to say that i should 've given you guys more credit for everything you did for the company and i 'm really glad you guys landed somewhere great .
cooper , we 're kind of busy right now .
okay , understood .
just ...
just as long as we ...
call scottie and set up an appointment .
okay .
everyone .
welcome , everyone .
as you all know , hangover cures are becoming a billion dollar industry , and we 've got the best one in the business .
my wonderful team has worked tirelessly to bring you this incredible video that will introduce you to our brand . a video ?
oh , come on .
hangender was founded by president and ceo ramona miller in 2011 after a bachelorette party gone wrong in las vegas .
oh , yeah , they 're happy .
- she looks good .
- hangender is made from only the freshest and natural ingredients .
fresh berries , figs , pubic hair , filth from humans and pig 's poop .
what ?
wait .
what 's going on ?
ew !
ramona miller does not care about black people .
no !
i love black people .
what ?
oh , that 's not okay .
turn it off . turn it off ! and ...
hangover cures for life .
move out of the way !
get out of here .
- it 's the best .
- that 's right .
who came up with that ?
what are you talking about ?
we did .
of course you did .
- that was a great idea , man .
- that was amazing .
all right , let 's get back to work . let 's get back to work .
- all right .
let 's go .
- yay !
- oh , hi . come on , come on , come on . - gather round , gather round .
this has no pubic hair in it .
no poo .
hey , guys .
i just wanted you to meet my new best girlfriend , renee .
my name is shawna .
we have tons in common and we 're pretty much inseparable besties .
uh , you must be josh .
no . no that one . kelly .
did you meet renee ?
look at her .
you 're so lucky .
ramona turned out to be , like , a ruthless shark , but she got hers .
so you and ramona aren 't friends anymore ?
you 're free to hang out ?
- yeah , of course .
- oh , cool .
renee , i 'm going to have to ask you to leave .
it 's shawna .
why are you still here ?
girls can be so clingy .
so , working with friends ... it can be hard but it can be done .
all you have to do is admit when you 're wrong and more importantly than anything , admit when they 're right . and don 't let your pig bathe in your hangover cure . and maybe don 't own a pig .
ramona .
are you , uh , here to apply for the bartender position ?
no , i came to congratulate you guys on bev con and to ask how you 'd feel about joining forces .
- absolutely not .
- what ?
- she 's crazy .
- welcome to the rock .
the bottom line is you guys have the better product but you don 't have the resources to get it out there .
i do and i think together we 'd be unstoppable .
what do you say ?
i don 't know .
i have to ask my partners .
so don 't be afraid to team up with the people you love the most , because when it comes to work , it 's always wise to keep your friends close ...
let 's do it .
good call . ... and your enemies closer .
episode 1 war of empire japan , during the yongsama syndrome , went crazy for the korean entertainment industry . and its effect on the korean economy was 1.196 trillion won . ( about us $ 1 billion )
the effect on korean economy that lee young ae , a top star in 60 countries , made is 3 trillion won . ( a little less than 3 billion dollars ) ms. lee young ae , even if she 's now married with kids , she 's still beautiful , of course . they may imagine " what if bae yong joon , who is still single , was my man "
but the women are not going crazy because of his fine six-pack . the central reason is hallyu - because korean dramas exist , he is receiving love . as per one book which is written by one expert of the korean broadcasting system , even if young people in vietnam don 't know the name of their chief secretary of the communist party , it 's said that there is nothing they don 't know about hallyu star jang dong geon .
through hallyu , the yearly export surplus on general merchandise is 27 trillion won .
this includes , of course , exported dvds of our dramas and ost music , the local handphones which appear in dramas , the cosmetics in dramas , even up to the cars they drive in the dramas .
money . everything is turned into money .
theddukbokkiwe ordinarilyeat onthestreet isenjoyedlikeafirstrateitalianpastawhichisordered to eat .
at the moment they put the ddukbokki , a top star ate in a drama , into their mouths :
( in japanese ) it 's delicious !
( in japanese ) it 's awesome , isn 't it ?
they have fallen for korea now .
i can 't be in love with you ( french )
look at this !
i 've never seen something like that .
they are in love with our korean tv dramas .
( in japanese ) you 're in the way !
even japan , the country which gave the degradation of colonization for 36 years .
the country that considers the land of koguryeo as their land - china .
the country of ghenghis khan , who succeeded in winning the largest territory in world history - mongolia .
( in mongolian ) got it !
dramas of no other country but korea !
they are crazy about our dramas .
cut scene !
did you just spit on me ?
!
sorry , sorry .
director , i can 't work like this .
to catch just one percent in the viewer ratings ...
just a bit .
our dramas , which the whole world is watching .
money !
anthony kim empire production representative
because they turn into money .
m-o-n-e-y .
money .
to make a drama that turns into money we need to use a writer who makes money .
of course we have to use actors who make money . right now , " elegant revenge , " produced by our empire production company , including its writer jeong hong joo , the money that was paid for the script for the last 7 years in my company ?
the cost for the castings is only 86 billions , 950 millions and 41 won .
with rounding it up , it 's 87 billion won ( us $ 87 million ) . and out of a total of 29 dramas that were aired i made 27 a success .
i 'm moving within the accurate probability .
and that probability is exactly made by my hand .
everyone , can you tell me what a drama is ?
a drama is a war with numbers .
over there !
representative , you said that out of your total 29 dramas , 27 succeeded .
then , what is the reason why the other two dramas failed ?
that means that the dramas you will make in the future can possibly fail too .
ah , of course , you 're right .
the thing that made those two dramas fail ... unless , in 2002 , the world cup which made all people in korea go crazy with red devil fever and mad-cow disease beef controversy of may , in 2008 , happens again !
i 'll absolutely never fail .
therefore people call the ring i 'm wearing " lord of the rings , "
and they call me the " king of dramas . " everybody , the third-class people change the world , and the first-class ... enjoys that world .
representative , what is the secret of your success ?
representative !
you 've already extended the term of the loan for 10 million won ( us $ 10,000 ) four times .
yes .
your address is still the same , right ?
you 're a drama writer ?
yes .
lee go eun " elegant revenge , " a secondary writer .
i really like dramas .
what have you written ?
elegant revenge .
elegant revenge ?
!
wow ! it 's the last day , today !
i 'm a huge fan !
i had no idea such a young person was the writer of that drama .
i 'm ... just a secondary writer .
by secondary writer , you run errands ... well , i also run errands , but the real work i do ... anyway , i think you wrote your job incorrectly .
huh ?
strictly speaking , you 're not a writer .
no , but being a secondary writer is a tough job .
anyway , fix it .
this is wrong , too .
you have to write " jobless . "
excuse me .
excuse me !
a secondary writer is also a job . for 365 days per year , sleeping bit by bit , doing all little chores like cleaning and laundry , we 're also writing each word to get paid !
therefore , i 'm not jobless !
what ?
i 've paid that dirty expensive interest without missing even once , and made your bank gain profit !
i got the loan from the bank , not from you , ajumma ! i don 't have much time now , so before pulling out my dirty temper , process this one . quickly !
except for the last 10 minutes of this final episode , we 've sent all the rest of the tapes to be edited .
managing director oh jin wan empire production 's # 2 person the shooting team is now standing by at samcheok , gangwondo .
and 10 hours ...
there are only ten hours left until the broadcast !
writer jeong said she can 't write .
can 't write ?
she said she can 't write about that orange juice as ppl ( product placement advertisement ) , so the script for the last part isn 't done yet .
so , how much percent ?
pardon ?
so how much percent of the probability to miss the broadcasting time ?
well , i 'm not so good at math ...
i majored in literature , so ...
there 's not enough time .
jeong hong joo elegant revenge 's main writer , a career 20-yr veteran .
[ mad dog in cheongdamdong ] yes , writer jeong , you 're working hard even in this situation that the time is exactly money .
working hard ?
well ..
i 'm writing this , not even eating a proper meal !
that 's why i sent 10 packs of fresh , exceptional orange juice .
haven 't you tasted it yet ?
representative kim ... it 's a classy and suitable juice for you , a writer getting paid 20 million won per episode .
this is the scene that our main character will die elegantly after finishing his revenge .
so does it make sense for him to drink orange juice there ?
writer , you know the hitter with a legendary rate , yang joon hyeok of the samsung lions .
when there was a rumor about trading him to another team , he said ;
" in my body , blue blood is running ! " ( samsung lions uniform 's color )
this is a sentence of faith for him to keep his loyalty to the team .
writer jeong , right now , in my body , yellow blood is running . ( without honorifics )
is it so difficult to make the main character drink orange juice ?
what ?
!
did you just talk down to me ?
would i only talk down to you ? i can kick you out too , writer jeong !
how dare you kick me out ?
hey !
i 'm ...
i 'm jeong hong joo !
dramas may be art to you for all i know , but to me they are business .
and with that one pack of orange juice , 300 million won is on the line . if you 're not going to give up my precious 800 million won , which you 've been paid so far for the script , then right now , add orange juice into the script !
what if i don 't ?
this isn 't a request .
this is the order from the owner who hired you .
orange ?
orange juice my ass !
i 'm back !
you , seriously ... !
go eun , does this make sense ?
huh ?
the main character who is about to have a heroic death dies after drinking the orange juice of ppl ( product placement advertisement ) ? does it make sense ?
what kind of crazy guy would do this ?
-who else ...
the cheongdamdong crazy dog .
elegant revenge final episode , the end .
go eun ...
correct any typos and send it to them .
yes .
oh , teacher ...
what did you do with that orange juice ?
go eun ...
the real artist should not compromise for a dirty shoppy businessman .
you 've worked really hard , too .
then , i 'm leaving now .
teacher !
even so , what should i say if the production company calls ?
tell him that i 'm gone under the water .
( implying " disconnect all contact lines " )
i 'm leaving .
okay ... go carefully .
oh !
representative , the ending has just arrived .
the phone you called is not available now ... representative , it 's already 1 : 30pm .
why don 't you just tell them to feed that orange juice to the actors and shoot the final scene ?
where did that orange juice come from ?
huh ?
before the main character dies , where did he get it from so that he drinks it ?
ah , well ... that ...
but , about that ... it was exposed 7 times , and one of them should be at least 10 seconds . for that , we got 300 million won ( $ 300,000 ) .
from the location to the description , dialogue , entire scene needs to be corrected .
but ... now we have only 8 and half hours until the on-air time .
if writer jeong says she can 't write it , what else can we do ?
yes , chairman .
how did it go ?
according to chief moon , the ending tape hasn 't even arrived yet .
please don 't worry , tonight 's show will be aired without any problem .
at this rate , what if the broadcasting accident ( going blank ) happens ?
chairman ...
i am anthony .
that will never happen .
i worried for nothing .
i forgot for a moment that you are anthony .
after the show is finished , i will report back to you .
i 'll talk to you later .
representative , what should we do ?
what is the secondary writer 's name ?
lee go eun .
representative !
that 's right , i 'm anthony kim .
teacher isn 't here .
i already know that .
representative ?
actually , a moment ago , writer jeong had a car accident .
teacher ?
she was on her way back to here , as she promised to correct the script .
but at the intersection right over there , she had a three-car rear-end collison .
th ...
then is teacher ... okay ?
don 't worry , i 've checked on her getting rest and falling asleep at er with my own eyes .
which hospital is it ?
before writer jeong fell asleep , she asked you , miss lee go eun , to correct the script .
me ?
she said that you 're a very competent writer , who is like her other half .
but ... what did she say to correct .... ?
what do you mean , " what " ? of course , it 's about the orange juice .
that orange juice ... she said i should write that ?
yes , right .
you need to correct that orange juice scene .
there is no way that teacher told me to do so .
she also said that you would answer like that .
then , from the location to stage direction and dialogue of the characters ...
up to the scene that the character dies after drinking the orange juice .
you 're saying she said that i should correct all of them ?
that 's why i came here personally , not just called , although i 'm so busy now .
really ?
!
do you ... think i 'm telling a lie ?
n-no .
we don 't have much time ...
start writing !
the time ... time 's running out .
writer jeong said that there is a pretty good one among your practice scripts .
ah , " morning of kyeong seong " ?
that 's right !
the touching story with the background of the japanese occupation era .
y-yes .
writer jeong told me to see that right away .
please bring that to the company tomorrow .
if you finish this one well , you can debut with the next show .
i guarantee you .
let 's go !
debut ...
let 's go .
while we 're going , you should write the scene and send it to the team .
here ...
then ... now ...
that 's right .
we 're going to the filming location in samcheok .
let 's go .
think well , how we can make the story that the main character drinks the orange juice and die .
the issue here is where he gets the orange juice from .
that 's right .
buying the orange juice doesn 't make sense , and receiving it from someone else is also ... on top of that , you should manage as little change of what we 've already filmed as possible .
then ...
ah !
the construction site !
the last revenge place for the main character is happening in the construction site , scene # 68 .
action scene in between the orange juice boxes ...
- orange juice bottles rolling and falling down !
- picking up the orange juice ?
- so then the ending ...
- drink it .
bang ! -okay , we 'll go with that .
oh , director hong ! leave the camera rails as they are , we 've just sent you the corrected script for scene # 66 and # 67 .
ah , you send the script for scene # 66 and # 67 ?
the main character 's phone scene at the hospital , cut it at the phone booth nearby .
the hospital and cut ? yes . move , move , quickly !
orange juice boxes and the distribution center , i 'm working on it now .
once the shooting is done , move from the beach ..... and take the road , 520m to the north from where you are .
road ?
i told you the distribution center .
there is one deserted storage unit .
hurry up to rent that place and set up that place as close to the distribution center as possible and shoot there .
how much time to get there ?
yes , we 'll arrive at 7 : 04pm .
we 'll be there in 2 hours and 35 minutes .
check the script in 3 seconds .
managing director oh , call the broadcasting station and let them send a helicopter .
- a helicopter ?
- yes .
also arrange a quick service motorbike from the shooting site to the helicopter .
ah , y-y-yes !
scene # 69 is done !
send it first by e-mail and move on to the next scene !
well , hurry up , please !
we don 't have much time .
be careful !
it 's the end !
prepare it quickly !
yes !
hey ! isn 't the smoke too much , huh ?
- the script is here !
- okay , okay ! okay ...
action !
cut !
okay !
let 's move !
everybody !
we 'll move to the next location !
here is the next script .
what ... ?
the final ending ?
we still don 't have it .
then what are we supposed to do ?
!
what time is it ?
yes , it 's ... 5 .. 5 : 27pm .
hey !
move , move , quickly ! go !
go ! hey , move all the equipment and go !
representative , the final ending ... so , how many minutes for its running time in m broadcasting ?
it 's 65 minutes and 20 seconds .
m broadcasting engineer anthony 's planted spy .
just now , director jeong went to the control room with the tape .
alright .
let 's make one more scene .
huh ?
the drama of m broadcasting ( implying " mbc " ) has 65 minutes and 20 seconds until the ending , and k broadcasting ( " kbs " ) one is already finished . so , we should make it 1 minutes and 30 seconds longer than m broadcasting 's drama , so that the rating can be over 30 % .
isn 't it too fake ?
yesterday 's rating was 24 % , but how can it be over 30 % even if i write one more scene ?
the possibility that viewers will change the channel to another drama after watching their favorite drama is usually 52.3 % .
moreover , our drama will have it 's final episode today .
the possibility that viewers will watch our drama at the moment of one and half minutes when other dramas are finished ?
82.7 % .
but ... after killing off all characters , there is only one scene left , where the main character will die alone , so what story can i make more ... ?
so , that 's your job anyway . in this situation when we don 't even have time to shoot the additional scene , if we have to add one more scene ?
then ...
should we go with flashback scene ?
that 's correct !
yes , representative . among the scenes we 've filmed before , please edit one flashback scene quickly which possibly comes in mind of the main character , right before he dies .
flashback ?
it will be inserted right before the ending scene .
running time should be about one and half minute .
yes , i got it !
representative , look at this .
" main character , walking with a pack of orange juice ... " " drinking orange juice , " " orange juice "
okay , let 's go with that .
the last script arrived !
move , move !
the rest , get out !
good , good , the last scene . once we 're done with this , it 's done !
from now on , the war is started .
read-y-y-y-y !
action !
the representative came .
they are doing the final scene .
cut !
hey !
orange juice close-up !
let 's shoot the close-up of the orange juice !
cut !
okay !
the end !
good job .
hurry , hurry , hurry !
good job .
i 've filmed it as you told me to do , but from here to seoul , it takes at least 4 hours .
there are less than 3 hours till the on-air time .
don 't worry , the helicopter will be used .
excuse me , representative . i 've just got a message , but because of the bad weather in seoul , the helicopter can 't come .
you useless bastard !
what about the quick-service motorbike ?
well , he 's over there .
pd park , wrap it one more time .
yes .
how much are you earning for a month ?
about 2 million won ( $ 2,000 ) .
why ? to s broadcasting station ( " sbs " ) in seoul , not in kangwondo , if you arrive there in an hour , i will give you 10 million won ( $ 10,000 ) . if you 're late by 10 minutes , 5 million won , if you 're late by 10 more minutes again , 2 million won , after than , not even a penny .
think you can do it ?
director park , lend me that motorcycle .
huh ?
representative ?
ah ... yes .
from here to seoul , 293.8 km . ( about 160 miles ) the possibility that biker goes in 300km per hour and arrives there alive is 36.2 % .
if he and i , two of us go ... it 's 72.4 % .
representative kim !
it 's dangerous !
you can die !
anyway , life is 50 : 50 .
i can 't ruin my life because of that half . what i 'm afraid of more than death , it 's failure .
what are you doing ?
yes ?
the script is here , here ( in your brain ) , so to edit the scenes , you should come with me !
what ?
even at this moment while you 're hesitating , the possibility is getting lower , bit by bit .
get on ...
now !
oh , director !
the tape ... has the tape arrived ?
they say it 's on its way .
lee seong jo ( elegant revenge 's present cp ) moon sang il ( s broadcasting station 's drama director ) until the air-time , now there are only 30 minutes left .
kim byeong seok ( s broadcasting station 's deputy drama director ) nam woon hyeong ( s broadcasting station 's cp )
what ?
what happened ?
i-is this 911 ?
the place is ... there is an accident at route # 7 , kangreung junction , near the ramp toward yeongdong highway .
it 's a motorbiker , and the condition is serious .
are you crazy ? if we leave him like that , he will die , he will !
what on earth is a drama to you so that it 's more important than a person 's life ?
so what can i do at this moment ? !
in this field , you should throw away everything else for a drama !
director ... he 's not picking up the phone .
hey !
it has already been 33 minutes since the show has started !
you 're the cp in charge of this show , but are you out of your mind ? hey , this is not a regular episode , but the final episode ! the final one !
have you ever seen a final episode without it 's ending ?
!
well .. that ... s ... even if you have to use a satelite , find out where he is now ! director !
the tape has arrived .
yeah .
director , they just started the editing .
how many minutes are left until the ending ?
yes , 5 minutes and 20 seconds left .
will they be able to edit within the time ?
they must do even if they all die .
before this scene , the main character rides a motorbike to go to the distribution center .
they must have filmed it all together at the end .
let 's cut it and paste it .
director , the rating is continuously rising .
how many more minutes are left ?
yes , 2 minutes and 50 seconds left .
it 's done .
43 .
44 .
now , we have only 15 seconds .
hurry , hurry !
director ... the dramas of other broadcasting stations are all done for today .
the time of death ... november 5th , 2010 .
30.9 % !
director !
we 're the highest one !
hey , you did a good job .
you 've worked hard !
director !
good , good !
you asked me earlier what on earth a drama is .
this is the drama we make .
wow .
they say that people make a condolence call when the dog of a prime minister dies , but not when that prime minister actually dies .
what you say now means ... the mother , of the minister of culture and tourism , is a dog ?
no ...
i didn 't mean that ...
of course not .
all the real dogs are gathered over there .
mutts which got wind of food smell in the party and came to get the food .
representative , yesterday 's quick-service rider ... passed away at the end .
sorry to hear that .
that damn motorbike !
i 'll crush that right away !
calm down , sister-in-law .
let go of me , brother-in-law !
to earn those few pennies of money , my husband died .
how can i calm down now .... ?
but what can we do now ?
life goes on anyway .
this shouldn 't have happened .... calm down , sister-in-law ....
how can i live now ... ?
go eun 's mother , please calm down .
do you think i can calm down now ?
we bought a boat to go fishing , not to kill my husband ! let go of me ! let go of me !
stop .
no need to cry .
don 't cry .
don 't cry .
what can i do .... ?
please ! please !
because of the motorbike , i lost my husband .
what shall i do .... ?
what will i do for my child ?
i 'm so angry .... dear lord of love , for us gathering here for sorrow , despair and darkness to lose the deceased , please lead us with your holy spirit and grace and please let us live on with faith and hope .
in the name of jesus , amen .
she must be resting in peace , embraced by lord .
thank you , representative kim .
oh , you 're here .
representative kim , congratulations .
drama director of k broadcasting . drama director of m broadcasting .
you 've continued the legend of " empire " with an unbeaten performance .
oh , thank you .
this time , because of the rating of your " elegant revenge , " we 've had really hard time .
your next one will be done with us , right ?
i 'm sorry .
i was going to visit you next week .
good , good . let 's have a meal next week , for sure .
with me , what about a round of golf on this saturday ?
uh , oh , what are you talking about now ?
representative kim , you should do your next show with us again , okay ?
you must be busy , so you can leave .
yes , then i will take my leave now .
- such a jerk !
- what a rude bastard !
right now , he 's hot . but some day , he will fall .
when it comes , let 's step on him surely .
all the directors are so impatient now .
yes , they are , so that they can rush to step on me once i misstep .
[ eun yi 's grilled mackerel ]
please give us more side dishes .
okay !
please give us one more grilled mackerel .
ah , yes .
ta-da !
oh , you 're here !
madame kang !
hey , what 's up with you ?
i 'm so busy now .
did you grill mackerel well with saulty flavor ?
i earned money with saulty flavor !
here , one more grilled mackerel , please !
okay !
hurry up , go put your bag inside and come out again .
mom , by the way ...
why ?
i have to send a script to the production company tonight , so please let me skip tonight .
then , will they pay you ?
of course ! once i debut , they will pay me .
got it !
go inside and earn money !
alright .
hello , this is writer jeong hong joo .
if you leave a message , i will call you back .
teacher , this is go eun .
i couldn 't reach you , so i 'm leaving a message again .
are you still at the hospital ?
you 're alright , right ?
by the way ...
did you see the last episode of " elegant revenge " ?
i tried hard to modify the script . thanks to you , i got the chance to debut .
thank you so much .
although i should thank you in person ... anyway , please give me a call .
it 's cancelled .
to leave a message , please press 1 .
to leave a phone number , please press 2 .
teacher , please give me a call .
i 'm so worried , and i have something to tell you in person too .
please give me a call .
please !
the message is saved .
[ morning of kyeongseong ]
writer :
lee go eun .
[ funeral home ] representative , no matter how much i think over and over , i think you 'd better not go in there ....
thank you .
by the way ... how do you know my brother .... ?
at the accident site , i was there with him .
then , the person who reported to 911 ... ?
and ...
i 'm also the one who requested the last delivery of the deceased .
the last delivery .... ? the deceased accepted my request to make a delivery within an hour for the distant taking three hours , and the reason he accepted that impossible request was because i offered to pay 10 million won .
that 's why the accident happened unintentionally .
then , you are .... the reason why my husband died ... ?
you bastard !
what 's the reason you came all the way here and say such things ?
after killing my brother , how dare you show up here !
?
please calm down , please !
if it were you , do you think you can calm down now ?
yes , yes , yes .
i thought it 's the right thing for me to tell you the exact situation why the deceased passed away .
and this .
what 's the use of such money ? my husband is dead now , so what 's the use of it !
? even so , don 't you think you gave them too much ?
it 's from your personal account .
well , i feel sorry for them too , but actually you don 't have any legal responsibility .
and he chose it on his own too .
i don 't think there is any reason for you to do that much ...
some one died while working for my drama .
and i 'm in charge of that drama .
is there any other reason needed ?
ah ... no .
but , are you really alright ?
don 't worry . the drama is finished , and starting tomorrow , for another drama ,
i will become a bad jerk again .
what can i help you with ?
i came for an appointment with representative kim .
your name is ... ?
i 'm lee go eun , a secondary writer for " elegant revenge . "
he told me to come here once .
ah , yes ...
ah , yes , i will send you that right away .
ah , yes , thank you for loving our drama , yes .
so , let 's stop there , after you ; ve knocked down all of them , i mean .
after finishing them , you will stop the motion , right there !
and ( breathing hard ) the sweat will run down , and then , cut ! this is it ! this is the great one !
miss lee go eun ?
yes .
representative kim is out of his office for a moment .
please wait inside for a moment
yes .
c.e.o. anthony kim
hello !
what brought you here ?
yes , you told me before .... oh , you did a good job before .
yes .
i came here because you told me before to bring my practice script .
oh , that 's right .
i 've prepared this one for 3 years .
it 's a historical drama with 20 episodes , and i wrote the script and synopsis up to 4 episodes ...
i got it .
i will contact you after reading them .
yes .
anything else ? yes , by any chance , which hospital is it that teacher jeong is admitted ?
" teacher jeong ... " ?
i mean writer jeong hong joo .
- anthony !
- i told you he 's not in the office now .
oh , she 's here now .
teacher !
so , it was you ? i was wondering which bastard dared to touch my script , but it was you !
teacher , what 's wrong with you ?
what 's wrong with me ?
hey ! i brought a country girl from busan , and taught and raised for 5 years , but now you dare to put your knife on your teacher 's script ?
ah , wait !
wait !
what do you mean " put my knife " ?
i did it because i was told that you asked me to do it !
who , who , who told you that ?
i know , right ?
who told you that ?
you told me so ! you came to the studio personally , and told me that teacher jeong had a car accident while she had to modify the script ! that 's why teacher asked me to modify it , so you said that the orange juice scene must be included !
i was attending church . you came to me personally and offered to modify the script , and in return , you brought your own script and asked me to read it .
but how come you blame me now ?
what did you say ?
so , your goal was to debut , i see .
no , that 's not true !
no , teacher ! i 'm really wronged now !
hey !
here is the obvious evidence , but how can you say it 's misunderstanding ?
teacher !
i 'm going to bury you in this drama industry field .
let go of me !
ah , teacher !
no , it wasn 't me ! i 'm saying it wasn 't me !
why on earth are you doing this to me ?
what do you mean ?
" what do you mean ? "
all my efforts with blood and sweat , built for the last 5 years , became nothing at once , but you 're saying " what do you mean ? "
i am sorry .
as promised , i will read your script and if it 's good , i 'll contact you .
do you think i will believe that ?
miss lee go eun .
do you know what is really innocent ?
focusing on the goal .
whether it 's money or success , i just focused on it innocently .
representative ! are you alright ?
i 'm fine , so just clean that up .
yes .
" morning of kyeongseong " ? japanese occupation era , in the wheels of history , a fierce life story of one man , who threw his identity away and risked his destiny .
genre :
noir
it 's a dark story which only costs a lot of money .
didn 't it spill on your clothing ?
get rid of this too !
yes .
ah , representative , the meeting is ready now .
let 's start .
representative !
we have a big problem !
drama " elegant revenge " which put a 40-year-old man to death .
what are you all doing now ?
actively explain and block all the media !
immediately !
yes , hello ? oh , reporter park , wait a second .
call lawyer park and let him prepare the press release for the explanation .
yes . all c.e.o.s of the daily newspapers , sport newspapers , internet media , editors and chiefs of portal sites which have been working with us , put all of them through to my room !
who ordered this " speeding of death " ? / netizens , furious about the production company 's c.e.o. / even bribed the deceased 's family ... / empire production 's cover-up for the accident ?
chief editor yoon dae sung of daehan daily is on the line 1 .
yes , chief , this is anthony .
oh , representative kim , what has happened ?
yes , i will tell you more details later .
chief , please block the articles first , though .
we will give you the press release soon for explanation or refutation . all other newspapers are putting up the story now , so we can 't take it out alone !
i will take care of other companies too , so please take that out immediately for now .
that 's , well .. ah , representative kim , i need to go for a meeting , so i will call you back a little later .
chief , chief !
c.e.o. kim jong chul of yonhop entertainment news is on the line 3 .
hello , this is anthony !
we 're also preparing the explanation press release , so you don 't have to worry about it .
please remove the articles now .
that 's why i 'm asking your favor .
you know i 've helped you a lot so far , chief .
this time , it 's your turn to help me , chief .
you shouldn 't do this to me , chief .
team leader park , we 've been partners for 5 years , you know that , right ?
i 'll not ask any more .
only three days , please block it for three days .
hello , hel ... ?
have you forgotten who helped you to your current position ? hello , hel ... ? have you forgotten who helped you to your current position ?
what ?
are you done talking ?
hey , you bastards !
i 'm the one who has given you money and articles so far !
representative !
right now , reporters are waiting in front of the company and requesting the interview .
at the end , this incident was the heartbreaking accident caused by the poor reality of drama production , which is also called " live show , " and by the greed of a mega drama production company pursuing only high ratings .
representative , mr. chairman is on the line .
speaking , mr. chairman .
regarding to this accident , the public demand by netizens is strong that the broadcasting station and the production company must actively work on the compensation for the family of the deceased .
anthony , i 'm really disappointed by you .
i 'm sorry . until tomorrow , the press release for refutation will be on and ...
no need to say anything further .
attend the meeting tomorrow for the board of directors .
mr. chairman ...
please give me some time to solve this .
i don 't care about other people , but at least you should trust me .
i 'm not saying i don 't know how you feel .
but shouldn 't i clean up the mess you made ?
you 're doomed now .
what do you mean " doomed " ?
who made " empire production " company as the number one in asia ?
how could you say i 'm doomed ?
because of me , " empire " is made .
the fame of " empire " is made because of me , anthony !
so what ?
even if i have to leave , i will leave with my own feet .
but i can 't just leave .
the writers i 've raised , i will leave with them all .
so are you saying you will fight till the end ? you know well , that baseball is dependent on a pitcher , and a drama is dependent on a writer .
fine . if you want , go ahead .
i don 't think you have much time , though , because i won 't stay still .
don 't regret .
secretary choi .
starting from top writer lee mi hun , writer kim , writer park , all others , put them through .
i 've read the article very well .
of course .
as i told you , you 've put even the photo really neatly .
anthony ?
what can he do now ?
i 'm not the only one who wishes that bastard goes under .
managing director , mr. chairman is on the line .
i will call you later again .
yes , mr. chairman .
since we don 't have much time , listen carefully to what i 'm about to say , director oh .
- yes .
- i fired anthony a minute ago .
do not let anthony take any of the writers of our company , not even a single one ! if you do this work properly , the next representative of " empire " will be you , director oh .
you can do that , right ?
yes , mr. chairman .
i 'll definitely finish this . secretary kim , before anthony , put writer lee mi hun through , and transfer all the lines , which secretary choi put through to anthony , to me !
all of them ! immediately ! writer kim , you 've hit the rating 50 % three times , but don 't you think the payment of 30 million won ( us $ 30,000 ) per episode from " empire " is too little ?
if you come with me , i will give you 40 million won .
writer park is on the line 2 .
then , please don 't hang up , and think it through for a moment .
secretary choi , what about writer lee ( mi hun ) ?
i couldn 't reach her yet .
by all means , put her through .
yes , writer park , this is anthony .
40 million won ?
writer kim , anthony is fired now , so he 's calling the number without thinking .
what will you do with the penalty for breach of the contract with " empire , " then ?
ah , you don 't need to concern about the penalty for breach of the contract .
i will get the investment and handle it right away . you know me well , i 'm anthony .
i admit that anthony is good and resouceful . yes , i admit that .
but , haven 't you heard about writer jeong ?
" elegant revenge " was mutilated by anthony .
what do you mean " mutilated " ?
it had the rating 30.2 % and was placed as the top .
i will treat you as a national writer , writer park .
what about 50 million won per episode ?
then , please don 't hang up , and think it through , yes .
secretary choi , what about writer lee ?
we didn 't request that side ... hey , excuse me !
ah , yes , yes , i got it .
i will give you more time to think about it .
writer lee is on the line 1 .
then , please don 't hang up , i will wait for your answer .
you .. you ... you !
what on earth are you ?
i 'm lee go eun who screwed up in this field because of you !
[ preview ]
what i 'm mad the most is that such a kind like you is acting up with the power in drama production field .
you will be doomed some day .
i 've always lived a fancy life .
of course , it 's not like that there was no shadow in my life .
by any chance , do you have about 3 million won ( $ 3,000 ) ?
the problem is that the shadow has been ...
are you in that much difficulty ?
continued since 3 years ago .
oh , i guess you have something to get some investment from japan .
about 10 billion won ... ?
- about 10 billion won ... ?
- 10 billion won ?
lee go eun , lee go eun ... yes , the name was definitely lee go eun ... go eun , don 't you want to make a drama ?
is this writer lee go eun ?
be quiet , please !
king of dramas , anthony can stand up again . to conquer the world again , i need you ,
lee go eun !
episode 2 thefallof thelord y-y-you ! what on earth are you ?
i 'm lee go eun who is screwed up in the industry because of you ! this is the most critical moment in my life . beat it !
because of money ... you screwed up what 's most important , my life ! what are all of you doing ? get her out of here !
please leave .
i 'll leave here when i 'm ready . what i 'm angry about the most is that my life has disintegrated because of you , a third-rate bottom feeder .
what i 'm mad the most about is ... that such a person like you is acting up with the power in the drama production field .
you ... will be doomed one day . by someone like you .
yes , writer lee . it 's me , anthony .
what are you looking at ?
!
if you , writer lee , is the top of " empire , " that means you 're the top nationally .
but the fact that the money you 're paid per episode was not the top level has always troubled me .
i will make you the most .
how about 60 million per episode ?
representative kim , i get your meaning .
i 'm driving right now .
let 's talk about it later .
ah , i need to go to a meeting .
instead of just hanging up , can you consider it ?
i 'm begging you , writer lee .
alright , then please give me 15 minutes .
yes , i got it .
let 's do that .
writer park , have you thought about it ?
i 'm sorry , representative kim . no matter how i think about it , i can 't do it because of the breach of contract penalty .
i told you i 'll take care of it at my end .
hello ?
writer kim , have you thought about it ? representative kim , i appreciate what you said .
let 's do it together next time .
there is no next time for my proposal .
also , 40 million won per episode means total 800 million won ! ( $ 800,000 ) . rather than getting 800 million won for working like a dog ,
i 'd rather take 600 million won and work like the prime minister .
hello ?
writer kim ...
shouldn 't you apologize first before talking about nothing but money first ?
hey , representative kim , because of you , i 've been recently living by taking sleeping pills .
how can you do that ?
since when did you respect me ?
i 'm hanging up .
representative kim , haven 't you been axed ?
axed ?
i left on my own two feet .
hello ?
hel ...
that !
[ name # 15 ] jeong hong joo
[ name # 1 ] lee mi heon
it has to be lee mi heon .
only lee mi heon .
writer lee , it 's me , anthony .
writer lee ?
what should i do , representative kim ?
jeong ...
writer jeong hong joo ?
that 's right .
it 's jeong hong joo .
were you expecting writer lee min heon ?
right now , she is beside me .
writer jeong , right now , i 'll apologize to you .
i 'm really , really sorry .
actually , i tried to immediately phone ...
you needn 't apologize .
you already know .
everybody wished to see you crash and burn .
anthony , you 're completely washed up .
umm ...
representative ?
the chairman said you should vacate the office right now .
3 years later ...
the representative has arrived !
you are here ?
i 've always lived a brilliant life .
in the brilliant life , there can be both the light and shadow .
of course , it doesn 't mean in my life , there are no shadows .
the problem here is that shadow has been continuously with me since three years ago until now .
however , i never felt unhappy . despite being axed from the company , despite the company 's bankruptcy for which i would have to shell out 30 billion won to start anew ; i was fine .
because i 'm not a kind of person who is obsessive about the past .
and i dreamed my comeback again .
however , in the industry , i notice everyone quietly avoids me .
after that , even the investments have been blocked and work has not gone well . even when i had no office , even moving again like that , even to the extent of selling my home , it was not bad .
but ...
even if my mother were to die , i am not a person who cries .
i don 't want to cry . i cannot fathom why throughout the past three years , without a regular fixed pattern , it 's like this .
i don 't think it is the case that there is no pattern .
whenever you feel anxious , you 're touching your finger .
three years ago , what is the story associated with that ?
although you are brushing it off with those words , it 's not so within your mind .
please , give me medicine . because we 've stopped your medication , we could find that ( pattern ) out .
but because i 've stopped the medication , i 'm crying again , aren 't i ?
i don 't have any more medication . please give me some more .
relying on medication cannot cure the disease .
you want to find out what causes mental instability fundamentally ...
so what is the percentage ?
what ?
!
i 'm asking what is the percentage of probability that i wouldn 't cry without the medicine .
the probability that i wouldn 't cry by taking the medication is 100 % .
please give me medicine .
psychiatry
welcome .
i will write a prescription for you .
but promise me , you will accept reality and overcome it .
that will be 50,000 won . ( approx . $ 50 )
it was declined .
you 've arrived ?
yeah . nothing really happened , right ?
there is something that happened .
the landowner said if we didn 't pay rent by the end of this month , she 'll kick us out . next . if we don 't pay the gas bill on time , they 're going to cut the gas .
i really hate to tell you this , but ... it 's been months since i 've last been paid .
i couldn 't pay my credit card bill , so i 'm getting the push call from the card company .
i hope you will pay me by this month .
where are you going ?
i might be late so go home first .
yes .
please leave well .
hello !
hi !
ajussi , send us two sacks of rice .
don 't be late !
yeah .
ahjumma !
ahjumma !
can i have another bottle of sesame oil ?
aigoo , you already used it all ?
in here , please .
thank you !
take care .
[ eun yi 's grilled mackerel ]
i 'm going .
the order is ready .
mister ! we 're watching that , but how come you changed the channel ?
oh , please ... you women ...
what did you say ?
oh , seriously !
i was watching it too .
this isn 't right .
change it to a drama .
ahjussi , it 's 3 : 1 , you 're the minority .
please just have this delicious grilled mackerel , and concede the channel to them .
oh , the moment is gone !
i wonder what happened .
the fact that he was their son must have been revealed .
how do you know that ?
look at his expression .
it 's the hospital and she is shocked from looking at the test results .
probably , the doctor would say , " as per the test , it 's 99 % matched . "
as per the test , it 's 99 % matched .
then , at this moment , the mom would cry out the name of the son .....
ji wan !
that 's right , the son 's name is ji wan , ji wan .
you 're awesome .
how ?
how come you figure even the dialogue ?
i know right .
you could become a writer .
you could really become a writer .
that 's right , she 's much better than the actual writer !
- that 's right !
- why are you serving the grilled mackerel here ?
geez . i think we must send her to the broadcasting station .
why do you have so much to say if you came to eat some grilled mackerel ?
have you read that article ?
i have . it was really epic .
move the camera upwards and bam !
and camera # 2 is coming in ... director hong , long time , no see .
have you been well ?
ah ... hello .
are you here to see representative oh ?
i heard your contract with " empire " is almost up .
you should work with me soon .
but promise me .
you must accept reality and overcome it .
that 's a joke !
i have something to film so ... uh ... one , two , camera !
representative oh jin wan
proposal for a joint venture ?
( a contract agreement between jaekuk entertainment and watanabe group written in japanese )
watanabe group ?
when is the appointment with writer jeong hong joo ?
i 'm sorry about the wait .
what are you doing that 's making you that busy ?
we were looking for some writers .
there are countless writers , but what have you done for the last 3 years , not making connection with them ? well then sunbaenim , what brings you here without notice ?
yeah .
do you have about $ 3,000 on you ?
are you having that much of a difficult time ?
huh ?
do you not have even $ 3,000 ?
no .
while i was coming here , i just hit another car slightly .
but the other person wanted to settle it in cash .
i was planning on giving him about $ 3,000 but i forgot my wallet at my company .
he must be waiting right now so just lend me the money since it 's not that big of an amount .
ah !
what should i do ?
i too , forgot my wallet .
why don 't you just call your insurance company ?
otherwise , you can get in trouble later .
of course .
there must be some investors from japan right ?
huh ?
i saw that a minute ago while i was waiting .
i 'm having such a hard time because of this .
why ?
are they strict ?
they say this korean-japanese is a pretty successful businessman in japan , but he says that he wants to invest about 10 billion won ( $ 10 million ) to a korean drama .
10 billion won ?
sunbaenim ...
this is 10 billion won project .
since we 're a big company , a proposal in such scale comes .
who would want to deal with a tiny company for this project ?
whatever .
if you are interested , you might as well try out for it .
the condition is simple .
the background of the drama should be japanese occupation era .
japanese occupation era ?
yes .
he 's saying that the drama should depict the fierce life story of a man , who 's betting his destiny in the swirling sad history of the japanese occupation era .
but how could we find a script like that all of a sudden ?
i 'm checking with the writer 's group and also searching famous writers too , but all they wrote were not really satisfactory , so ...
ah , aish . representative ?
oh !
are you okay ?
representative kim !
are you okay ?
japanese occupation era , in the wheels of sad history , ...
it 's fine .
here , take these .
put them away .
put these away .. ah , yes . ah , yes .
[ morning of kyeongseong ] this script , put that in the closet .
yes , sir .
oh , director oh .
yes , sir . the scripts in that closet , throw all of them away .
for how many years have they been in there ?
get rid of them , including the closet .
yes , i understand .
sunbaenim ?
sunbaenim !
we should eat dinner together , but i have an appointment .
no , take care of business .
sunbaenim !
sunbaenim ?
!
heehee !
go eun ...
what ?
nothing .
hey ... mom , just talk ... what is it ?
do you ... ?
are you setting me up again on a date ?
huh ?
whose son is it going to be this time ?
the veggie store ?
the grocery store ?
or the seafood store ?
do you want to write dramas ?
do you want to write dramas ... again ?
you had said that it was good that i quit when you were paying off my debt of ten million won . now that we are making a decent amount of money , if you want to go back to writing , you may do so .
i enjoy living my life earning money with you better .
and what do you mean we make a decent amount ?
we need to save up money to buy a house . by grilling one mackerel at a time , in a thousand years ?
i 'll make it so that you 'll be grilling 100 mackerels a day .
you 're the last person to leave .
yes , keep up the good work .
yes .
have a good evening !
i wonder if they turned off all the lights ...
lee go eun .
her name was lee go eun .
[ morning of kyeongseong ]
writer / lee go eun
alright , this is good enough .
after adjusting a few things , it will become quite a thing .
i hope you take a liking to this piece of work .
world production representative ...
anthony kim .
writer / lee go eun 010.298.5983
your grilled mackerel is ready .
please enjoy .
please enjoy the food .
yes .
cut !
we 'll do the customer 's reactions now .
do you have to do this ?
it 's taking up several tables and the lunch crowd will be here soon !
mom , do you know how many customers will come after doing this ?
i told you i will make it so that you 'll be grilling 100 mackerels a day .
we 're ready to start .
yes !
which one of you wants to be on camera ?
shall we do it from this side ?
or this side ?
what 's gotten into her ?
[ it is an international call . ]
hello .
hello ?
this is the watanabe secretary 's office . hello ? this is the watanabe secretary 's office .
can i speak to anthony kim ?
this is anthony kim of the world production company .
we can speak japanese if you 'd like .
yes .
our chairman read through the entire script that you sent .
he was deeply moved by it and wants to invest in it .
just ...
can you come to japan together with the writer ?
the chairman is in america right now on a business related trip .
you can come tomorrow to japan with the writer .
hello ?
mr. anthony kim ?
yes , yes .
will you be able to come tomorrow ?
of course .
yes , i understand .
we will provide your flight . see you then .
in that case , i will see you then .
[ morning of kyeongseong ]
what irks me the most is the fact that my life is ruined by a third-rate bottom feeders ' crap such as you .
what makes me mad the most is the fact that jerks like you wield all the power in the drama production field .
you ... will be doomed one day . by someone like you .
as we had feared , the number is no longer in service . i 've also contacted the writer 's guild , all her classmates from writing school , and other assistant writers that may know her , but ... it was of no avail .
how about writer jeong ?
after all , she worked under writer jeong for 5 years . she doesn 't know , either ?
no .
representative ...
how about hiring a private investigator ?
a private investigator ?
you want me to find someone based on just the name of lee go eun and her disconnected phone number .
in that kind of situation i charge five million .
five million won ? ( around $ 4,600 )
we have to find her in 5 hours .
if that 's the case , then 8 million won .
if you don 't like my price , you can go somewhere else .
why don 't you give it a thought .
representative , how are we going to get 8 million won out of nowhere ?
if you give them a discount , they 'll take it for granted .
while the price is steep , he 's not saying that it 's impossible to do .
when food was scarce during the enlightenment period , people started grilling mackerels instead of ribs .
although in the present generation we have a lot of food ...
grilled mackerel ?
it looks really delicious .
representative ...
mmm !
eun yi 's grilled mackerel it 's really delicious !
well , what should we do ?
have you made up your mind ?
never mind .
huh ?
i said never mind .
rep ...
rep-representative !
i 'll give you a discount .
how about 7 million ?
seven million ?
aren 't you coming ?
ah , yes .
alright , 5 million .
what a deal . 5 million !
too high ?
4.5 million !
4 million !
or just even one million won !
your mackerel is ready !
enjoy your meal !
enjoy !
veggie refills , please .
alright .
excuse me !
is my grilled mackerel ready yet ?
yes , just a minute .
ah , hello !
please wait for a bit .
that tv gig worked like a charm !
the real charm is in your grilled mackerels !
your mackerel is ready !
please enjoy !
one moment !
yes , this is eun yi 's grilled mackerel .
can i speak with writer lee go eun ?
huh ?
is writer lee go eun available ?
i 'm sorry , i can 't hear .
who ?
writer lee go eun , is she available ?
hello ?
yeah , that 's me .
this is the drama production company " world productions . "
we were looking for a script for our next drama , and we happened to read your " morning of kyeongseong . "
yes ...
just a minute .
everyone , be quiet for a minute !
yes , you were saying ?
do you happen to be bound by a contract or production company ?
no , thats not a problem .
that 's good .
our company would like to make your " morning of kyeongseong " into a drama . what do you think ?
my " morning of kyeongseong " ?
yes , if it 's ok with you , i would like to meet with you today .
today ?
where do i need to go to ?
no , i will come to you .
umm ... miss lee go eun , it 's been a while .
have you been well since the last time i saw you ?
get out right now .
miss lee go eun .
i said to get out .
writer lee ...
i told you to get lost , you jerk !
will you not let go ?
i know that i made a mistake back then .
" writer lee " ?
after kicking me out of the field of drama writing , you 've got some nerves to call me " writer lee . "
because of you , i 've been called a sell-out who backstabbed her mentor and other harsh names .
because of you , my future as a writer was hopelessly crushed and utterly destroyed .
three years have passed , and you just show up and want to produce my drama ?
i 'm sorry . i sincerely am .
that 's why i 've come here to apologize .
three years ago , you seemed to think that my work was a worthless piece of crap .
what happened ?
do you suddenly like it ?
because it 's sincere .
who are you trying to fool ?
just tell me the truth .
yes , your script is crappy and mediocre at best , but it has some potential .
i 'm after that potential .
i told you not to talk rubbish , just tell me the truth !
i got a rich geezer hooked on your script .
you ...
you ... are really low .
get lost .
before getting lost , i 'll just say one thing .
i don 't know if you 've heard , but i 'm completely broke .
all i have is an overdrawn bank account and that crappy old car over there . i 'm behind on my rent payment , too .
however ...
i can rise again .
the king of dramas anthony can rise again .
to conquer the world again , i ... need you , lee go eun .
i ...
don 't need you .
so get out .
didn 't you hear what my kid said ?
i guess making the daughter of me , park kang ja , miserable three years ago wasn 't enough for you .
if you don 't want to die by my hand get out right now .
i 'll say one more final word .
i told you to get out right now ...
hey ... that guy said he would say just one more thing and then go .
let 's hear what he 's got to say !
yes , let 's hear him out .
fine , i 'm a coldblooded , repulsive jerk . but what does that have to do with you ?
what does me being a jerk have to do with you giving up your dream instead of pursuing it ?
so you want to spend the rest of your life here serving mackerel ?
just be content with telling your child one day , " your mother also used to have a dream once . "
dreams aren 't there to be reminisced , but rather , to be fulfilled .
and the only chance to fulfill this dream will be gone after tonight .
okay .
it 's okay if you hate me .
but don 't do something you 'll be sorry for , for the rest of your life .
what are you looking at ?
just stuff your faces with mackerels !
good night .
good night . mr. kim , you had too many drinks tonight .
what ?
another bottle of soju , please .
ah , yes .
please visit again !
the food was good !
drive safely !
oh , hello !
this was my last ray of hope after everything else has failed .
will it all end this way ?
two more dishes of grilled mackerels , please .
two more grilled mackerels .
do you plan on living your entire life grilling mackerels like this ?
and then are you going to tell your children that you had a dream at one point of your life ?
dreams aren 't something to look back on when you grow older .
dreams are there to be pursued .
it 's fine if you hate me .
but just don 't do something you will regret for the rest of your life .
mom ...
i 'm sorry .
i want to go .
that 's fine .
you must pursue your dream .
don 't worry about mom .
go .
anyways , you ...
had no skill at grilling mackerels .
this is for the best .
mom ... silly girl , i just fired you !
fine , i can 't back down like this .
you 've made the right decision . i 'll tell you two things . first ,
i really hate people like you .
nasty , dirty , greedy , soulless sell-outs .
you should keep that in mind .
thank you .
i 'm going to kill you for real . as long as you don 't kill me painfully , please .
my mom also has a message for you .
if you make me cry one more time , she 's going to slit your throat .
this is quite a tough family .
fine . now , it 's my turn to talk .
you 've got to watch your language , young lady .
mind your tongue if you want to work with me .
i understand , representative .
what would you like me to do ?
pack your bags and get in this car .
and then ?
we 're going to the airport .
don 't forget your passport .
why the airport ?
why do you think ? to take a plane , of course !
the man who thought your script was great , wants to meet you in japan .
anthony kim-sama and lee go eun-sama , it is an honor to have both of you aboard
chairman watanabe 's personal airplane .
this plane is air-wk number 501 .
we plan to arrive on hukuoka airport at 2 : 15 p.m .
i hope this will be a comfortable trip for both of you .
do you think i 'll sign a contract without a contract fee ?
why don 't you have a contract fee ?
it 's written right there .
that i will give you the money after i receive the investment fee .
you know my situation well enough .
then why did you get on the plane ?
because i 'm a villager from busan who has never ridden a plane before .
why ?
what is that for ?
it 's your contract fee .
there 's nothing more i can do even if you glare at me .
that 's all i have .
if you can 't trust me , then don 't believe me , believe sejong ( king on currency ) .
let me take that .
where is your hotel ?
jae guk hotel please .
you will be picked up tomorrow morning at 10 .
yes .
where are you going ?
huh ?
do you know how much it costs to spend a night here ?
taxi !
what 's with him ?
!
how much is a one-night stay here ?
ten thousand yen !
can you give me a discount for two rooms ?
no way , no way !
what do we do ?
they only have one room .
huh ?
is it really true that there 's only one room left ? writer lee isn 't even kim tae hee or song hae gyo ( korean actresses ) , do you think i would be crazy to joke about this ?
turn off the lights .
it 's already 8 o 'clock .
wake up now .
what kind of writer sleeps so much ?
being a girl , you grind your teeth and snore .
good morning .
the president is waiting .
he 's prepared a yacht and a car .
what kind of a person is chairman watanabe that he wants to fully fund the drama production ?
i told you .
he 's a korean-japanese business man loaded with money .
so you 're saying he looked at my script and liked it ?
you wish .
you wouldn 't even be here if i hadn 't fudged the facts .
what do you mean ? all you 've got is 5 years of experience as an assistant writer , with no publications , not even a debut experience , not to mention the fact that you were excommunicated from the field and wasted 3 years away .
then ...
what did you tell him ?
i told him to meet you in person .
ne quid nimis ( nothing in excess ) .
too much fudging can backfire .
the only reason he 's investing on this project is his trust in me , so don 't make any mistakes and do well ! so don 't make any mistakes and do well !
fine .
he 's a man after all ,
the president has arrived .
this person is the writer ?
yes , she is writer lee go eun .
reading your work brought back long-forgotten memories of my homeland and my days of youth .
as he read your work , he wondered whether this inexperienced rookie writer would be worth his investment .
the whole time i was reading your script , i was so moved by it , that i just had to see the writer in person .
the whole time he was reading , he saw plot holes here and there , but because he trusts producer anthony he has decided to invest in our drama .
did you conceive the idea for the script yourself ?
he asked whether the story was your own idea .
answer him .
though i didn 't experience this painful era of our history myself , because she didn 't experience this painful era of our history herself ,
i wanted to write about the life of a man whose destiny was entwined around that tragic period .
she had a writer 's block , but it was fate that led her to a crucial mentor , which would be me , and i gave her some advice and that 's how she was able to finish writing her script .
ah , so anthony kim is the writer 's saviour .
then , i will trust you anthony kim and your writer .
i will sign a contract with you .
what did he say ? that based on his trust on the producer , anthony , he will sign a contract with us !
really ?
oh , thank you !
( in japanese ) thank you .
i have one condition though .
thi ... this year ?
within this year , together with my beloved wife akiko
i would like to watch " kyeongseong 's morning . "
your wife ...
she 's very beautiful !
the only requirement for my investment in this production is that it needs to come out within this year .
for this year , the drama broadcasting schedule has already been decided , so ... is that it needs to come out within this year . for this year , the drama broadcasting schedule has already been decided , so ...
do you have a particular reason for wanting it to come out this year ? i can 't tell you that .
can you promise me ?
mr. anthony ?
of course !
within this year , i will definitely show you the drama .
your word is not enough .
once i get our drama assigned within this year 's broadcast schedule , i will accept your investment .
how about that ?
alright .
let 's sign the contract immediately , then .
i 'll deposit a down payment of 1 % within today .
and i will provide the investment money in three installments as stated in the contract .
this way , please .
we 're really making my drama !
this isn 't a dream , is it ?
so giggly and happy over that ?
don 't do anything rash and just focus on perfecting your script .
just get it scheduled for broadcast this year , and i get 9.9 billion .
in total , 10 billion won !
i 'm finally making a comeback .
my empire is all starting again !
i 'll show you what i can do , mom .
i 'll definitely show you hat i can become a drama writer you need not be ashamed of . i said that i wouldn 't write dramas again , but this destiny-like opportunity ...
i can 't miss it !
the opportunity is already in my hand .
this is my destiny !
born to be the king of dramas , my destiny ! to the people who have misunderstood me until this day to the bastards that have looked down on me my earnest sincerity with a bloody , mighty rule ,
i 'll show them ! i 'll get my revenge !
( in japanese ) how are you ?
( in japanese ) i am fine .
aigoo .
who 's there ?
is someone there ?
( in japanese ) stop !
( in japanese ) please ... spare me ..
( in japanese ) i won 't do it again ... ever !
the person who breaks his promise dies .
just what in the world are you doing ?
it is human nature to break a promise .
but the person who breaks his promise to me definitely dies .
who 's there ?
thank you for watching king of dramas with us .
please follow our channel .
have to air it within this year .. !
there 's no question that the biggest productions get scheduled first .
people only know kang hyun min as a big star , but he 's in fact the biggest idiot there is . mr. kang hyun min , this is writer lee go eun .
get up and put your hands up if you don 't want to die .
did you fall for anthony 's deceptions again ?
why don 't you sign a contract with us ?
we 'll make the best offer ever made to a rookie .
do whatever it takes . get her !
episode 3 the return of the king but the person who breaks their promise to me definitely dies . who 's there ?
it 's me , akiko . it 's late , are you not going to sleep ... ? since you weren 't beside me , i couldn 't sleep .
let 's go home . please don 't make any noise . y-you speak korean ...
i 'm a korean drama fan . of course , i know some korean .
could you have possibly heard earlier ... ?
oh , your translation with lies ?
don 't worry .
i didn 't say a word to my husband .
were you that surprised ?
my husband doesn 't kill people often , though .
then ... chairman watanabe ...
he 's the best yakuza ( gangster ) in kyushu area .
watanabe finance with 40 years of history , he 's the boss of that yakuza .
my husband is a bit hard-edged and cold-blooded , but you don 't know how gentle and tender he is usually .
then ...
then the chairman of the watanabe group is ... of course , it 's a " group . "
you can 't even guess how many " team leaders " he has .
as long as you keep the promise that you would show us the drama within this year , you won 't die , so don 't worry .
and you asked earlier why the drama must be on tv within this year .
this ... is a secret .
in fact , my husband has the last stage of stomach cancer .
so you must definitely keep your promise !
okay , i know what you 're thinking , but ...
low-grade ...
what do i do ?
should i tell him that i can 't do it now ?
no , how hard it was to get this opportunity ! if i lose this chance , i might not have any chance to come back , not only even in three years but forever !
but life is more important !
i can 't be killed by a yakuza with last-stage stomach cancer !
wouldn 't it be better to tell him that i can 't do this , before it becomes too late ?
what ?
you 've come here and now you say you can 't do it ?
if someone goes back on their word with me they die . whether being killed by a yakuza 's boss , or dying later after failing to come back forever , anyway it 's all the same .
i have only one life , so who cares even if i use his money ?
the dice of destiny is already cast anyway .
representative !
the japanese watanabe group are on the line holding .
good afternoon , mr. tanaka .
i 'm empire productions representative oh jin wan .
how are you doing ? about that investment you told me about earlier , is it okay to send a script over now ?
yes ?
i 'm sorry .
we have decided to sign with the world production agency .
world production ?
anthony , that jerk !
it 's not like somebody is chasing us . please , let 's go together .
to put the drama on tv within this year , we have no time to lose , not a second .
within this year ?
yes , broadcasting the drama within this year is the condition of his investment .
there are just a few months left this year , how can we get a broadcasting time slot ?
i can do that , so you 'd better focus on your script now .
the real war is just started from now on .
representative , congratulations !
the deposit is wired to our account .
as if it 's so new to us ..
why aren 't you coming in ?
oh , it 's writer lee .
you 've seen him before , right ? he 's joo dong seok , the producer .
you 're having lunch .
well , i 'm done now . come over , take a seat .
by the way , where is my desk ?
oh , it 's over there .
here , miss writer .
okay .
then , where is the room that i 'll be sleeping in ?
it 's over there . show her inside .
huh ?
yes .
over here .
over here , miss writer .
i 'm done .
representative ?
shouldn 't you give me a minimum space so that i can work on my writing ?
what 's wrong ?
you 're not fat , but is that space too small ?
no , i mean , it 's not small , but it 's too lacking ...
it 's too lacking , i agree .
congratulations , sunbaenim .
i rushed to come here , so i couldn 't bring anything .
i heard you got the investment from watanabe group in japan .
that 's really just amazing !
we were lucky .
and your help was great too , representative oh .
what do you mean " lucky " ?
it was solely because of your competence .
oh , it 's writer lee .
it 's been awhile .
how have you been ?
i thought you two were having a bad connection , but i guess i was wrong .
like me , i thought writer lee also wished sunbae 's business to be ruined , but i was wrong about that too .
like me ?
yes .
three years ago , when the quick-service biker died .
how could all the details of that accident be on the media maliciously ?
why ?
why were all those articles pouring out without giving us any chance to block them ?
haven 't you doubted that ?
perhaps ...
you ?
yes .
that tip-off was done by me .
i mean ... why , you ?
why ?
you don 't know ? for 7 years , under you , i had done all kinds of work , but although i 'd cleaned up all crap you made , you took all the credit .
did you think i would live forever as the second man of " empire , " the subordinate of anthony ?
how could you ?
how could ... ?
how dare you ?
!
" how dare ... you ? "
i should be saying that to you .
the representative of " empire " now is ...
me .
such a person like you who uses cheap tricks to make just one drama . a loser like you who hit rock bottom can 't dare to confront me , the most powerful man in drama production industry , the king of the empire is me !
drop that useless hope , please .
with the investment contract which will become invalid if the show can 't be aired within this year , you can 't fight against me .
therefore , please just stay broken quietly . if you still want to get that tiny bit of respect as sunbae .
what are you watching so intently ?
what did i do ?
i 'm just cleaning .
miss writer lee .
let 's talk for a little bit .
i have something to show you .
this is the writer 's room prepared by empire production for you , writer lee go eun .
earlier , i was a bit too enraged , so i said rude things .
please understand .
why don 't you sign a contract with us , empire production ?
i signed a contract with world production 's anthony kim .
how much did you receive for that contract ?
well , the contract ...
it doesn 't matter .
i don 't think anthony gave you a proper payment for the contract because he came to me to borrow $ 3,000 a few days ago .
and even if you received some , we will pay the penalty for breach of the contract for you and give you the best condition you can get as a rookie writer . ten million won ( $ 10,000 ) per episode , the advance payment 100 million won for contract , and the rest of the payment 100 million won , so total 200 million won ( $ 200,000 ) .
are you being like this to me in order to get your revenge on him ?
if you thought of me as such a small ( petty ) person , then i 'm a bit disappointed .
oh , i heard that the investment from watanabe of japan was done solely because of your script , writer lee go eun .
by any chance , were you deceived by anthony , again ?
writer lee , even if you 're working with anthony , your script won 't be able to be aired .
as soon as you sign a contract with us ... well , was it " morning of kyeongseong " ?
that script will be proceeded right away and be aired , i guarantee you .
but ....
this is the key for this apartment .
while staying here , please take your time to consider this offer .
tomorrow afternoon , i will come to see you with the contract .
don 't forget .
that anthony will never be able to make this drama .
did writer lee not say where she was going ?
well , when i was back from the rest room , she was already gone .
what about her phone ?
no matter how many times i try , she doesn 't answer her phone . but you know , director . since we got the advance deposit , can 't we have some delicious food ?
our destiny depends on how to use that money .
what about the new recruits ?
they will come to work here by 3 pm .
are you not eating ?
you can eat the rest .
i heard that the investment from watanabe of japan was done solely because of your script , writer lee go eun .
by any chance , were you deceived by anthony , again ?
i will give you the best condition you can get as a rookie writer .
10 million won ( $ 10,000 ) per episode , the advance payment 100 million won for contract , and the rest of the payment 100 million won , so in total 200 million won ( $ 200,000 ) .
as soon as you sign a contract with us , that script will be proceeded right away and be aired , i guarantee you .
don 't forget . anthony will definitely not be able to make this drama .
mom ?
our writer lee go eun , are you writing the script well ?
by the way , mom , would it be important to keep the promise with a person i can 't trust ?
or would it be more important to choose the guaranteed future , not keeping that promise ?
is something going on ?
oh no . i 'm just saying .
this child ...
why are you thinking hard about such an easy thing ?
what 's so important about the promise with a person you can 't trust ? the future with the guaranteed success is more important , of course .
i guess so , right ?
of course !
auntie ! please give the food quickly !
i 'm busy right now so i will call you later okay ?
alright .
this person is unavailable right now .
the signal is on , but she 's not picking up the phone .
anyway , i sent a text message that we will have a meeting at 3pm today , so she will come by then .
director ?
we 're ready to have the meeting .
writer lee ?
miss writer lee go eun ?
thank you for giving me such a good opportunity , but i wish my drama would be made to give hope to everyone , not to step on someone .
i can 't take this opportunity by breaking a promise .
i 'm sorry .
my first script , " morning of kyeongseong " will be made by world production as promised .
we couldn 't even contact you . what in the world happened ?
i 'm late only by 3 minutes .
what ?
are you saying you ignored the calls on purpose ?
well , my friend told me to stay at her apartment if i don 't have any place to stay , so i went there ... you went there , and ... ? it looked great outside , but even the cell phone didn 't work there , and it was too luxurious for me to stay there .
the place where people live should be more humane , don 't you think so ?
as promised , i sent the contract payment to your account , so check it later .
hurry up and go in . everyone is waiting for you .
what do we do ?
what do we do ?
call writer jeong .
what ?
" elegant revenge 2 " will be aired this year .
for that , park shin yang ( a famous korean actor ) is going to take the main role next year ...
we can do the casting again .
director .
don 't you understand what i 'm saying ?
call a meeting immediately .
yes , sir .
this is han kang wook , who newly joined world production as a producer .
yes , nice to meet you . yes .
he 's good at the producer work but not good at family matters , so he divorced two years ago .
and here is team leader park seok hyun for finance .
i 'm still single , no need to worry about being divorced .
he 's single , no chance to get married , so don 't care about him .
and here is goo yi jae , the youngest staff for errands .
please take care of me !
i 'm goo yi jae of production team .
and this is ...
yes !
i 'm writer lee go eun of " morning of kyeongseong . "
please take care of me !
so now we 've done our introductions . everyone here who will share the destiny with our world production , as you can see , the level of our office is on the ground .
but ... remember this ...
the bank account with 670,000 won ( $ 670 ) and this small , humble office are the ground we will newly start , but with the advance deposit 100 million won , up there , we 'll head to the top . to do that , what you will do from now on is to win the broadcasting schedule so that this drama can be aired within this year .
aired within this year ?
airing it within this year is the condition for the investment .
the rest of the investment fund of 9.9 billion won , a total of 10 billion won ( $ 10 million ) worth drama , " morning of kyeongseong "
definitely needs to be aired within this year .
what will happen if it can 't be aired within this year ?
we die . currently for monday and tuesday of the k broadcasting station ( implying kbs ) , " days of passion " is being aired now , and after this , a historic drama with 50 episodes is planned . for wednesday and thursday , " heaven " with 20 episodes , and after this , the drama of director jeong seong chan is planned , so this year 's broadcasting schedule has already been completed .
what about m broadcasting ( implying mbc ) ? m broadcasting has already completed it 's broadcasting schedule for this year , and the place which has the time room for this year is only november for monday-tuesday of s broadcasting ( implying sbs ) .
" top secrets ... "
wasn 't it casting the actor choi tae joon ?
this early morning , tae joon had a big accident during the first shooting , so he needs to rest for 8 week .
if he needs 8 weeks , the shooting will be canceled soon .
yes . the media is talking about his " displaying the fighting spirit for the drama " in real time , but we should consider that his drama is actually going to be canceled .
then , are you saying they 're releasing the false information to the media ?
for the production company , they 've already lost hundreds of million won , so we can say they are making a frantic last-ditch effort . for the actor , since he can 't keep acting for the drama , he 's just trying to maintain his image , that 's all .
then the remained spot is only november for s broadcasting ...
fine .
make a list of actors in their 30 's who can play for " morning of kyeongseong " aired in november .
let 's go with november , s broadcasting .
representative !
even so , broadcasting it in november is ...
november in this year at s broadcasting .
this is the matter of life or death of our empire production .
no matter what it takes , we must get that time slot ! since the top actors in our company are not available anyway , make a list for top actors of other companies and call the meeting again .
the meeting is starting again .
tell them i 'll be there soon .
why did you come back again ?
huh ?
why did you come back again , not going to oh jin wan ?
how did you know ... ? you make a lot of fuss for even a small matter , but you were out of reach after going out to dump garbage , and came back one day later .
moreover , right after oh jin wan visited .
and then saying all the nonsense about a friend and the luxurious apartment or whatnot .
did you think i would fall for your lame acting ?
i guess the luxurious apartment part must be true . oh jin wan , not your friend , showed it to you , though .
why ?
why did you come back to me ?
is the reason really that important ?
it 's not that important , but i 'm very curious .
people like you wouldn 't understand , but there are principles and promises to some people .
and there are some people who live to keep those things even if they don 't have much .
i just kept them , that 's all .
how grateful i am .
it 's not for your sake .
of course it 's for mine .
so it wasn 't anything special .
and i 've told you before .
it 's not " you . " it 's " representative . "
s
k
k
m since you came from the movie industry , if i make an example in that side , if you made a movie , you need to release it through movie theaters .
yes .
but in our field , there are only three theaters .
so-called " 3 companies of ground-wave . "
if you can 't get the time slot through these three , the drama production itself is impossible , far from releasing part .
then , the competition to get the time slot must be really fierce .
that 's right .
but the golden time for a drama is 10pm !
the number of the drama production companies which are desperately trying to get that time slot is 248 , counting only korean companies . even if we count only three writers per each company , 248 by 3 .. 3 by 8 is 24 , and .... 248 by 3 .. 3 by 8 is 24 , and ....
it 's 744 : 1 .
so , if we think about it 's probability ....
don 't you have the calculator ?
0.134 % .
it 's just 0.1 % , no need to round it up .
you will see with your own eyes from now on how hard it is to get the time slot .
let 's start the casting .
yes , sir . yes , sir .
excluding the actors who belong to our empire production , these are the actors who can play for the drama which will be aired in november .
lee jeong shik and oh tae yeon , do you think they can be the top ( main role ) ?
exclude them .
remove jeong do jin too . he can be the top for a daily soap opera , but he doesn 't have the mask for a mini-series .
about cha seung hyun ....
isn 't he going to film a movie in december ?
cha seung hyun can 't work with us because of the movie .
who do you think would be okay for the main role , writer lee ?
while writing the script , haven 't you considered any among these guys ?
how about yoo ha yeon ?
i think he 's the most similar one to the main role 's image .
he 's not good because he 's a junkie .
i heard he quit last year .
the most unreliable words in the world is that a junkie says he quit the drug and the game-addict says he quit gambling .
even so , he 's one of the top three in korea . that 's true , but although the newspaper didn 't report it yet , the prosecutor 's office already finished it 's internal investigation , so there is a rumor they would blow it right before the presidential election .
tell him to blow the lunch box bomb by himself .
how about seo tae ha , director ?
but would he want to play the role for a " revenge " drama again ?
he has a severe depression issue , so as far as i know , he has been getting therapy for months .
what a moron ...
acting must be done by acting ...
next actor .
is depression a sin ?
well ... i didn 't mean that , but ...
then should we go with seo tae ha ?
ah , forget it .
who else is left ?
kim jin ho and kang hyun min .
kim jin woo has a lot of female fans .
he 's very hot now , not only in korea but also in other countries .
not only s broadcasting , but also all three stations can 't resist him .
let 's go with kim jin woo , representative .
not him .
now what ?
if i say no , then no .
well do you have a reason to say no ?
you don 't need to know .
why are you leaving kim jin woo out and going with kang hyun min ?
why on earth are you saying we need to go with kang hyun min ? " elegant revenge 2 , " november at s broadcasting , let 's go with kang hyun min for its male main .
prepare for that .
yes .
valencia , once i put this dress on , you will never envy these puppies again .
get ready .
there ... yep .
♪ i got them heavy boobs , heavy boobs ♪
♪ dense like dying stars , i got them ♪
♪ heavy boobs , heavy boobs ♪
♪ i can 't run real far ♪
♪ let me break down what i just said ♪
♪ each of my double ds ♪
♪ has the volume of a toddler 's head ♪
♪ not bitching ' ' bout my boobies ♪
♪ they look super fly in shirts ♪
♪ but if i swung them in your face ♪
♪ you 'd be like , oh , my god , that hurts ♪
♪ i 'm blind , holy crap ♪
♪ i literally can 't see ♪
♪ i have permanent retinal damage ♪
♪ i 'm suing you and your heavy boobies ♪
♪ heavy boobs , heavy boobs , dense like dying stars ♪
♪ i got them heavy boobs , heavy boobs ♪
- ♪ they each have their own memoirs ♪ - _
♪ what you gotta know is that ♪
♪ boobs may be where it 's at ♪
♪ but if you cut them open ♪
♪ they 're just sacks of yellow fat ♪
♪ stuff falls into my bra ♪
♪ it 's a little bit of a drag ♪
♪ but when i go to bed at night ♪
♪ it 's like opening a mary poppins bag ♪
whee , candy and pennies !
♪ i got them heavy boobs , heavy boobs ♪
♪ dense like dying stars ♪
♪ i got them heavy boobs , heavy boobs ♪
♪ don 't need an air bag in my car ♪
♪ here is a list of all of the objects ♪
♪ that i can hold under my boobs ♪
♪ stapler , ten pencils ♪
♪ paperback copy of arabian nights ♪
♪ dog bone , remote control ♪
♪ hardback copy of wuthering heights ♪
see , when a star is dying , it transforms into a red giant .
and if the red giant does not have enough mass to fuse carbon , an inert mass of carbon and oxygen builds up in the center , transforming into a dense white dwarf .
and yeah , like , that 's my boobs .
that 's ... that 's what my boobs are like .
♪ i got them heavy boobs , heavy boobs ♪
♪ dense like a white dwarf ♪
♪ i got them heavy boobs , heavy boobs ♪
♪ they 'd be a catch at fisherman 's wharf ♪
♪ i got them heavy boobs , heavy boobs ♪
♪ don 't ever forget that ♪
♪ these heavy boobs , heavy boobs ♪ ♪ are just sacks of yellow fat ♪ ♪ like the stuffing of a couch ♪
♪ they 're just sacks of yellow fat ♪
♪ technically meant to feed a baby ♪
♪ they 're just sacks of yellow fat . ♪
i had no idea .
no wonder my boobs are so small .
i have no fat on my body .
see ?
exactly .
problem solved .
now , you try on the dress .
let 's see how it looks with some nice b-cup action in there .
no . i couldn 't .
valencia , you 're going to make a really beautiful bride .
josh is really lucky .
i hope .
i hope some day it is josh and me , i really do .
it will be .
and i 'm so sorry if i did anything to delay that dream .
i appreciate you saying that .
do you mind taking a picture of me ?
just for me .
i want to remember how i looked .
of course .
oh , i got nothing to work with here .
i mean , i 've already hacked into valencia 's e-mails and her texts .
ooh , wait a minute , what 's this ?
a photo stream ?
oh , again .
you with the face .
what do you mean , how did i get valencia 's password ?
you know me .
let 's see what we 've got here .
valencia 's photos ... chocolate cake ... fried chicken ...
oh , she just likes to look at food .
oh , wait a minute , what is this ?
i think that 's jayma 's wedding gown .
you know , i 've ... i 've prayed to god my whole life , and i , and i never knew if she was listening , but ... thank you , big mama .
uh , no wrinkles .
- yeah , or bubbles .
- thank you .
we got this .
it says i have a new like on a photo .
i-i didn 't take a photo , what is this ?
you ruined my wedding .
yeah , bitch .
- how could you ?
- what 's wrong with you ?
# hotterthanthebride ?
i-i-i didn 't do anything .
i didn 't post a photo .
and my hashtags are always positive .
like , # girlboss or # fitspo .
someone must be framing me or something .
what kind of psycho with no life would do such a thing ?
oh , god , paula .
you must have done it .
when i went to the bathroom .
this is why women don 't go to the bathroom alone .
excuse me , miss , i have a bone to pick with you .
i 'm sorry , sir .
can i help you ?
yes , you can .
by helping yourself .
stop chasing after the cartwheeling magician idiot boy , and start paying attention to the guy with the bountiful , beautiful hair , who happens to really care about you .
oh , you 're friends with marty .
i prefer mentor .
ah , well , i 've already told him i 'm not interested .
him continuing to chase after me is a terrible decision , which makes me respect him even less .
i mean , maybe if he backed off and let me come to him , maybe i would think about it .
otherwise , can you tell him to stop with the songs and the texts and the skywriting ?
what did you skywrite ?
lyrics to the song .
cost a fortune .
oh , and it was so windy .
i basically paid for a cloud .
so what 's next , coach ?
what do i do ? what 's my next move ?
i don 't know .
i kind of think we do nothing .
i like that .
like for a day ?
we slow-playing ?
no .
i actually think forever .
i think we got to call this one .
go back to dusting potatoes .
you laugh , but who likes a dusty potato ?
marty , ally 's right .
chasing someone who isn 't into you is a terrible move .
trust me , i feel you .
i 've been there .
you mean you and rebecca bunch .
your friends come in here all the time talking about it .
god , i hate my friends .
yeah , marty , that 's right .
i did that with rebecca .
but watching you do it , i see what a bad call it was .
actually , i 'm realizing , i make a lot of bad calls ...
in everything .
yeah , me , too .
and i think we 're the same .
i mean , i work here in a grocery store , even though i went to harvard .
the harvard of what ?
just harvard .
in boston .
your decisions are just the worst .
look , i already deleted it , so don 't worry .
and we only got one like and it was from ...
omg , it 's from maxim 's hometown hotties .
i 'm telling you , it was rebecca .
she 's been " single white femaling " me since she got here .
valencia ...
you take one step closer , and i 'm getting a restraining order ,
jennifer jason leigh .
what i was going to say was , um ...
you were right .
yep , it was me .
yeah .
it was my idea for valencia to put on the wedding dress , and then when i saw her in it , i-i got jealous .
and so i , uh , i stole her phone and i posted the picture .
i 'm sorry .
i don 't believe you .
only someone crazy and sad would do that .
um , yeah , and i 'm both those things , so i 'm , um , i 'm sorry .
valencia , i 'm sorry we accused you .
rebecca , you should go .
yep .
good-bye , chans .
before you start , you don 't have to buy me champagne or a fur coat ; just a simple thank you will suffice .
paula .
valencia 's password was so easy .
valencia1 .
i mean , come on .
paula !
just get in my office .
i told you not to do anything .
wait , what ?
i mean , why didn 't you listen to me ?
oh , my god , why didn 't i listen to you ?
because if i listen to you , nothing would ever happen with josh .
no thanksgiving , no camp .
no kiss .
you , you didn 't do all that by yourself .
and every time you said , " no , paula , don 't do anything . "
and then i did anyway , and you were happy .
wow , yeah , you 're right .
okay , that 's the way it used to be , but it 's not like that anymore , okay ?
no .
paula , listen to me .
i 'm done with josh .
oh , come on , i saw you .
you can 't even throw away the macaroni portrait .
- i threw it away .
everything 's gone . - even channy bear .
yeah .
channy bear sleeps with the fishes .
nope .
i can 't give up on josh .
he 's not yours to give up on .
why are you so hung up on this ?
it 's for you .
it-it 's to make you happy .
no , it 's not , because i just told ...
it 's because ...
if we 're not chasing josh , then you 're not going to want to hang out with me anymore .
i know it .
what ?
no .
paula , no .
that 's not true .
yes . yes , it is .
he 's our glue .
he 's what holds us together , and ...
i 've barely seen you this week at all .
paula , i love you .
okay , you know that .
but we have to stop .
it 's not good for me .
you and i will always be friends , okay , i promise .
but we don 't need josh chan .
because i don 't need him .
hey . hi . i 'm sorry , i , um , i needed somewhere to drink , and i thought , i thought you 'd be at school .
you 're here .
what 'll it be ?
it 's last call .
i guess , i don 't know , i 'll take some alcohol .
do you know any alcohol names ?
yes .
i will take a peach schnapps on the rocks ?
no , never mind .
never order drinks again .
i 'll make you something .
that 's a lot of books you got there .
yeah , i 'm trying this really new radical approach to studying ...
it 's called studying .
wow . is it working ?
really well .
this is perfect .
what is this ?
it 's this really exotic drink called the gin and tonic .
well , i 've never heard of a gin and tonic before , but i think it 's gonna be really big .
i 'm sending in the patent .
hey , what are you doing after this ?
do you want to , like , i don 't know , go to another bar , get a drink , or hang out at my place , or ...
what happened ?
did you and josh get in a fight ...
is that what 's going on ?
and you need a shoulder to cry on ?
so you come to greg , ' cause that 's what i do .
no , that 's not what this is .
rebecca , i would really love to hang out with you ,
i would , but i know what that leads to for me .
and i can 't .
i can 't be in second place again with you .
great .
um , good to know .
i 'm ... i 'm gonna go .
i 'm gonna go .
greg ?
oh , josh , i thought you were someone else , i ...
what did you do ?
y-y-you hacked into valencia 's phone ?
y-you said you were trying to keep your distance from me , a-and then you do this ?
this is how you make it up to valencia ?
okay , josh , it 's a long story , but all that matters is
valencia is now beloved by your family
- and i 'm out of the bridal party .
- yeah , but ...
josh , focus on your girlfriend and on your family , okay ?
and the next time you want to come and talk to me , don 't just show up at my door .
oh ... okay .
yeah , okay , cool .
um , so could you go ?
i-i-i have something i need to do .
are you kicking me out ?
lil ' bit .
bye , josh .
i 'm sorry , channy bear .
hey , what 's going on ?
you okay ?
what ...
no , i c ... i-i can 't do this .
i-i can 't eat a dusty potato .
oh , god , is that what i taste like ?
i mean , i , i ate a , an old french fry off the floor of my car , but i sh ...
it 's a metaphor .
wa ... you did what ?
it doesn 't matter .
no , good god , stop , woman .
greg , listen to me .
this isn 't about anyone else but you .
you 're not second choice .
i promise .
listen , if this is going to happen , - you need to know something . - okay .
this isn 't going to be like a roll in the hay and you go home .
this is going to be like three days of you and me just ruining each other .
and not emotionally .
is that what you want ?
when do we start ?
i 'm so glad we 're finally doing this .
me , too .
i mean , there 's so many girls i could have brought here , like a whole bunch , but i chose you , ashley .
- it 's ally .
- don 't care .
can we have sex now ? yay .
oh , my god .
you 're an idiot .
and you 're horrible .
why do i always make the same mistake over and over again ?
i make terrible decisions .
i go for the lowest form of man because i 'm afraid to be with someone i might actually connect with .
you know what ? screw this .
i 'm going back to nursing school .
wait , do you want me to do another cartwheel ?
i 'm-i 'm-i 'm good at those .
whatever .
she 'll be back .
they always come back .
and now behind the wall , the making of colony ...
my fellow colonists , welcome to day 341 of our occupation .
our choice is clear .
resist or die .
- roll sound !
- take marker .
action !
colony , usa network 's blockbuster original series , is one of the most anticipated new shows of the year .
we came up with this idea of setting an occupation
- in modern day los angeles .
- it 's current .
it 's as if this happened now .
legendary television , part of the studio that produced godzilla and pacific rim , and universal cable productions , the studio behind the acclaimed original series , mr. robot , have teamed up with creators , carlton cuse ,
emmy award-winning producer of lost and writer of the hit film , san andreas , and ryan condal , screenwriter of hercules , to bring you this compelling story of resistance and collaboration .
to be here , bringing it to life , and to see the scope and scale , it 's the most awesome part of the process .
over the next half hour , you 'll get an inside , behind-the-scenes look at this intriguing new series , including interviews with the creators and cast ...
i tend to like a big story that i can 't even figure out myself .
... exclusive footage from the set and a sneak peek at the unique and amazing world imagined by the creators and crew .
they don 't know this yet , so just between you and me , you know , and whoever is watchin ' , we 'll let them know .
this is colony-- behind the wall .
get down !
you , come here !
what is this ?
what are you doing ?
- come here !
- i haven 't done anything !
you can 't do this , please !
colony is a story about occupied los angeles .
it 's about family .
it centers around my family and our struggle to survive .
there 's been this mysterious invasion by this very advanced outside party , and we don 't really know who they are , and they 've put up these giant 300-foot walls .
it 's kind of a family espionage thriller , but with some science fiction elements .
what would you do , put in this situation ?
what would you do for your children ?
what would you do for humanity ?
who come-who comes first ?
colony is the brainchild of creators and executive producers ,
carlton cuse and ryan condal .
ryan and carlton are this kind of amazing dynamic duo .
carlton and i are both huge syfy fans , but we 're also big fans of history .
and one of the things that we both were fascinated by was paris , during nazi occupation .
we looked at a bunch of photos , and you would see these parisians , well-dressed , sitting in sidewalk cafes , sipping espressos , while nazi stormtroopers were going by in the street .
we thought that was a really interesting and incongruous image , that people were trying so hard to kind of keep the normalcy of their lives under this incredibly repressive regime .
it just fascinated us , and we wondered ,
" well , what would that look like in-in our city , where-where we both live ? "
and we talked to legendary about it .
they loved it .
we set it up with usa .
and then we made the pilot last year .
and now , here we are , making a series .
legendary makes their first foray into television drama , with colony , and brings together a stellar cast , led by josh holloway of lost .
carlton called me , like ,
" i have an offer you can 't refuse . "
and sarah wayne callies of the walking dead .
it 's a story i believe in .
it 's a character that i 've never seen before .
the acclaimed cast also includes three-time emmy winner , kathy baker , of picket fences ,
peter jacobson of house ,
amanda righetti of the mentalist ,
true detective 's tory kittles ,
carl weathers of rocky fame ...
apollo creed !
... and paul guilfoyle of csi .
we feel like we 've really got some great actors on our show .
we were kinda just with the characters .
we 're sort of seeing the world through their eyes .
you have this world in which these people , who maybe were neighbors at one time , find themselves at odds with each other .
let me go !
one of the things about reading the script , it made me think about , how far you 'd be willing to go to resist .
it was a pilot that was about family , and about people making really , really difficult choices .
for people to come back , week to week , it all begins and ends with the characters .
everything has suddenly been heightened , and the choices that you make , who you side with , who you choose to trust , who trusts you , become massively important for your day-to-day survival .
it 's a political environment .
everything you do has a political component .
throughout human history , we 've either occupied someone , or been occupied by someone else .
it 's shocking what human beings will do in these situations .
what would you do to survive ?
what are the compromises you would make ?
what are the things that you would be capable of doing ?
good morning .
good morning .
you stink .
and you , you stink .
at the center of the show , is the bowmann family .
will is a former fbi agent , forced underground by the occupation .
all the people who were police , and authority figures , military , was wiped out during the arrival , and will was smart enough to go underground .
he and his wife , katie , must navigate this new world , where freedom no longer exists , and the consequences for disobedience are deadly .
get up !
let 's go .
their relationship is already complicated .
they have true love at the core .
yet , they 've lost a child .
will and katie have three kids , but only two of them are living with them right now , ' cause their son , charlie , was caught on the other side of the wall when these mysterious invaders showed up .
and that 's fracturing the family in various ways .
it 's bad enough he 's gone , but to see you every day hating me for it .
i don 't hate you for it .
will and katie are desperate to get their kid back .
and so , will hired this guy to smuggle him into santa monica , to rescue charlie .
you 'll be my 38th run .
you got nothin ' to worry about .
hop in .
you have entered the exclusion zone .
remain inside your vehicle until otherwise directed .
my box kills x-ray and thermal .
they 'll never know we were here .
freeze !
hands where we can see them !
- get ' em up !
- move , now !
- stay where you are !
- on your knees !
keep ' em up !
put your hands behind your head !
medic !
get me a medic , now !
coming up , on colony-- behind the wall ...
find out how the show 's creators built the world of occupied los angeles utilizing firsthand accounts ...
juan , our director , grew up in argentina , under a dictatorship .
... state of the art effects technology .
story always comes first .
the visual effects are a way to augment and help tell that story .
... and good , old-fashioned hollywood magic .
hey !
where is my phone call ?
- let me out !
- i want my phone call .
- step back !
- i need to call my wife .
agh !
occupied los angeles is a world very much like our own ...
there 's blue sky .
there 's palm trees .
there 's good weather .
... with some eerie differences .
there 's an unscalable wall that surrounds the city .
show creators , production designers , and visual effects specialists combine with cast and crew to bring this incredible world to life .
colony is this kinda wonderful blend of-of elements that give you a-a really unique look on what life in los angeles would be like if we were actually occupied .
this world 's just that ten percent different enough to really kind of make you sit back and say , " whoa .
what-what 's happened here ? "
the show picks up nearly a year after the arrival .
a cataclysmic invasion that changed everything .
every defense apparatus was wiped out within eight hours .
all of a sudden ,
los angeles and its millions of citizens , their lives were completely turned upside down .
many were killed , many were taken away .
one of the first things that happened after the arrival is , pretty much all the cars went away .
so , this is a very different los angeles .
a lot of people are on foot or riding bicycles , so it has this very kind of parisian feel to the city .
we tried to kinda come up with this idea that beauty and oppression could co-exist .
you know , los angeles could look pretty and inviting , but , at the same time , it 's clearly now a hostile environment .
what 's great about what carlton and ryan have done in the concept , is just that idea of isolating it , fencing in groups of people , creates this tension .
slowly , but surely , you 're feeling what it is to be oppressed .
i 'm a stickler for the-for the logic of , uh , of the occupation , and of a dictatorship , and how this mentality works .
i grew up in argentina , uh , during the ' 70s , where we had a dictatorship .
a very-- a-a pretty rough one , but that a lot of the society was for it .
and i can see that happening very easily in america .
was an explosion at the santa monica gateway , yesterday .
it was the resistance .
- those terrorists wounded at least ten people .
- thank you .
who knows how many more they killed ?
we were going for a look that had a much more documentary style .
we really wanted to make it look and feel very real .
that this could really be happening .
it 's very handheld , and , you know , many times , we-we staged the scene , without any specific instructions to the camera operators .
and then we just put , you know , the three cameras , as if they were a news team that are covering the scene for the first time .
uh , so it feels very immediate , very real .
the production designer is in charge of the look of the tv show .
i 'm responsible for all of the things in front of the camera .
from building the sets to decorating the sets .
the sets are beautiful , which , right away , for an actor , that puts you in a good place .
so , the yonk is my bar .
this bar .
the yonk is short for yoknapatawpha , which took me some time to learn how to say .
- thank you , ryan .
- i love the yonk .
it 's kind of a bar that has a southern vibe to it .
it definitely feels real .
oh , well , look who made it after all !
oh , you think i 'd miss the opportunity to drink publicly for the first time in 11 months ?
as a designer , i was kind of excited about all of the kinda graphic qualities to it .
resistance posters , and posters that are more like pro-occupation .
by the visuals of what we put on the screen , we 're telling the audience where you are .
the visual effects are a huge part , uh , of this show .
we have this tremendous visual effects partner , in ghost , who is our , uh , visual effects studio , out of , uh , copenhagen , in denmark .
they visualized an amazing pilot .
our walls , the 300-foot walls that surround los angeles , are an entirely digital creation , as are the drones that patrol the skies .
yeah , the drones are-- th-they are little characters of their own right .
th-they are , essentially , acting .
they 're in patrol mode , in seek and destroy mode .
in modes that we don 't know what they 're really thinking .
even though they 're mechanical , and they 're just whizzing around , you 'll actually see , they have different personalities .
ryan geeks out on all the science fiction stuff .
like , he was showing me pictures of drones , and we were jumping up and down like children .
you know , it was like , yes !
i 've always wanted to be in battlestar galactica , and , like , star wars , and all these amazing shows , and we get to do stuff like that .
the most difficult thing for actors is trying to imagine elements such as drones that they 've never even seen .
and my role is to assist them to imagine this world .
we need to make sure that eye lines are correct , and they are actually looking at a drone that is somewhere that we 're not seeing in real life .
so , it 's especially challenging on a blue screen , or a green screen as well .
the toughest thing is , really , it 's the cars .
los angeles is a very busy city .
well known for , uh , its greatest export ,
- which is traffic .
- to clean up these roads , and to make it look like we 're in a no-car environment , is really , really difficult .
so , we lock down lanes of traffic as much as possible .
we pick off little pieces from our plate shots that don 't have traffic in them , and it 's a really painful process of painting them out .
- fire in the hole !
- action !
today is probably the-- one of the biggest shots .
we 're gonna have bullet hits .
uh , alien drones whizzing in from the background .
next week , we 're , uh , blowing up an entire house .
each week , we get more and more exciting effects .
coming up , on colony-- behind the wall , we 'll explore occupied los angeles , and discover the challenges faced by its citizens .
if you 're resourceful and clever , you can survive this occupation .
both the collaborators ...
there 's no victory to be had against these people .
what there is , is compromise .
... and the resistance .
there 's a lot of fear and consternation goin ' on .
that 's a good word , " consternation . "
consternation in-in the colony .
i like it .
as you dig deeper into colony , you 'll discover the oppressive new world under which the citizens of los angeles are forced to live .
there 's no communication .
there 's no internet .
there 's no cell phone service .
there 's no information that goes outside of these walls .
i 'm lookin ' for will bowmann .
are you will bowmann ?
sullivan .
ahh !
not anymore .
los angeles is now under martial law .
a giant wall separates the city into three blocks , each administered by a proxy government .
there 's santa monica , there 's the los angeles block , and there 's the san fernando valley block .
- where are you taking me ?
- green zone .
in the la block , where our characters live , you either live in the flats or you live in the green zone .
the green zone is the more privileged area , where the people that collaborate with the transitional authority live .
the hollywood hills and bel air , all those houses have been taken over and are occupied by the new elite .
they 're leading very nice , luxurious lives , whereas the regular citizens are not .
they 're subject to rations and repression .
the show sort of explores that dichotomy .
i 'm the proxy governor of our little block here .
why am i here ?
to turn crisis into opportunity .
i take question with the fact that he 's a bad guy .
he collaborates with a clean conscience because i think that snyder believes truly that he is a force for good change .
wait-wait-wait .
hold on .
you can 't-- ahh !
after the arrival , the occupation government established their own police force , which the citizens refer to as the red house .
they run ads , just like army ads . they 're tryin ' to recruit people to control other people .
there 's a military curfew in effect every night .
the things that you used to take for granted , like walking down the street to go get a cup of coffee , are not so easy anymore .
you don 't know , at any given moment , whether you might get hauled out of your house and taken away , never to be seen again .
my brother got sent up .
the factory .
what is the factory they keep talking about ?
is it a concentration camp ?
nobody really knows what the factory is , or what it 's making , but what we do know is , is that people who go to the factory don 't ever come back .
in opposition to this new totalitarian regime , stands the resistance .
a shadowy group of fighters led by the mysterious geronimo .
the resistance wants very much to end this occupation .
these are just everyday men and women whose lives have been turned upside down .
people are willing to risk their lives to make change .
- a revolution .
- down !
how big is the resistance ?
who runs it ?
what 's their grand plan ?
how organized are they ?
those are all mysteries that are a part of the show .
our hosts are tired of the insurgency .
you want me to collaborate .
infiltrate the insurgency and bring us their leader .
does he agree with resisting ?
yes , but they 're going about it in the wrong way .
they 're getting innocent people killed .
amidst these warring factions ,
will and katie struggle to keep their family safe .
they try to live their life the way they had before it was ripped out from under them .
family in a world like this takes on a new primacy .
madeline 's living with them , her sister .
and hudson , madeline 's son .
for maddie , finding insulin for her son is-is one of the biggest challenges .
certain conditions are deemed unworthy for treatment .
diabetes is one of ' em .
this has to be kept cold .
it 's way too hot in here .
what do you think you 're doin ' ?
- i 'm not buying insulin .
- a trade is a trade !
whether it 's trying to buy something on the black market , or whether it 's being out at the wrong place after the curfew sirens sound , the world is full of all these perils that never existed before ,
and our characters are trying to navigate their way through this and survive .
if you can 't help me , then you and your wife , and your children , you 'll all be sent to the factory .
the most important day in human history is coming .
i just want you and your family to be on the right side of it .
the audience will learn more about who these mysterious invaders are , what they want , what they 're up to , what their powers are .
there are all these sort of layers to the show that will be explored over time .
coming up , find out how the cast answers the question , collaborate or resist ?
i don 't know if i would have the courage to risk my children .
and the creators give us a special sneak peek of a scene from the premiere episode .
- don 't tell him .
- yeah .
don 't- - just because he asked nicely doesn 't mean
- you 're gonna tell .
- keep watching .
cameras and marker .
actor number two , action !
colony , usa network 's new original series , is a high-stakes drama about surviving in a new world .
it 's an old human story , but this is unlike any enemy we 've faced before .
these characters , they come up against all sorts of dilemmas about , what are some of the compromises that we need to make in order to survive ?
who are you , deep down ?
what kind of character do you have ?
and what would you do for your family ?
the characters in colony must walk the fine line between collaboration and resistance .
nothing and no one is what they seem .
you don 't know who to trust .
we lie to everyone .
we lie to protect ourselves .
why are they collaborating ?
what is at stake for them ?
and that is the beauty of this show .
it 's a character-driven study of perspectives .
and now , here 's an exclusive sneak peek at a scene from colony .
please , no !
no !
get off me !
get off !
usa network , legendary television , and creators and executive producers ,
carlton cuse and ryan condal , have created the next great television drama .
all great stories are , at their core , human stories .
we get to take a fantastic universe and use it to examine the contemporary issues of our own world .
it 's about humans battling humans .
it 's about the things we 're capable of doing to each other .
it focuses on that unbreakable family bond .
big , heavy , moral decisions .
revolution .
we 're not telling you who 's right and who 's wrong .
there 's no black and white hats .
there are red hats .
kind of end up with this bit of a casablanca story .
it 's this crossroads of the world , where different people from all walks ,
occupation , and resistance .
and then the people that are just caught in between , trying to survive .
hopefully , it 'll put yourself in the shoes of our characters and our show , and you 'll wanna ask the fundamental questions .
like , would i collaborate ?
would i be in the resistance ?
what lies outside the la block ?
is the world destroyed ?
it 's all a mystery , and that 's the fun of the show .
these are things we 'll have to discover .
all of this , it 's temporary .
once they 've satisfied their needs , they 'll leave .
what needs ?
colony premieres thursday , january 14th , at 10 / 9 central , only on usa .
the time has come to make your choice .
do you collaborate or resist ?
that 's a heavy question .
it 's easy for anybody to sit and say ,
" i 'd do this " or " i 'd do that . "
- i resist . - i might collaborate , if i got to make television shows .
i would like to think that i would resist .
i would really take my time to make that decision .
i may be a huge coward .
i have no idea .
when ya can 't beat ' em , join ' em .
collaborate and die .
i would do whatever it took to save my family .
anything .
finding a job where you get to work side by side with your friends can be the best .
it can also be the worst .
i came in with two friends !
thank you !
my name is cooper barrett .
my friends and i are here to mess up our lives so you don 't have to .
_
- yeah !
- yeah !
- to our success .
- mm .
ah .
- hey .
- hey , how 'd you know i was here ?
what are you talking about ?
you 're always here .
what 's the occasion ?
oh , uh , their hangover cure was just named " best new specialty beverage "
because of us , everyone from your casual chardonnay sipper to your hardened alcoholic is waking up to a better american morning .
this is how dr. penicillin must have felt when he created the what-cha-ma-call-it .
there are so many things wrong with that statement .
- who are you looking for ?
- i was hoping my girl kelly would be here so we could hang out , ' cause , you know , we have a thing .
oh , like a patty from college thing ?
no , there can never be another patty .
that thing was like a powder keg .
kelly and i are just , you know , we 're besties .
- hi .
- who 's that ?
i would like to introduce you all to my new girlfriend , ramona .
howdy , y 'all . nice to meet you .
let me guess .
texas ?
no , but kelly bet me ten bucks
i couldn 't do the accent .
she can .
i 'm actually from london .
- oh , really ?
- nope .
orange county .
you owe me another ten .
oh , god , you 're so good at accents !
what the hell is going on ?
nice to meet you . i 'm , uh , cooper barrett .
ramona .
- cooper ?
- yeah .
- can i talk with you for a sec ?
- sure . sorry .
- knock it off .
- what did i do ?
you just used your " i want to sleep with you " voice .
" hi . i 'm cooper barrett . "
i sound like optimus prime ?
you are not to sleep with her .
what ?
'cause of ... ' cause of this .
this ?
there 's no this .
- so i can sleep with her .
- no !
listen .
solid girlfriends do not come easy to me , and i don 't want you and your penis messing it up .
okay , first of all , she hasn 't even expressed any interest .
and second , if she did , and i went through with it , i hope you know i respect you enough to never tell you about it .
fine , i won 't sleep with her . thank you .
hi . i 'm cooper barrett .
hi . i 'm cooper barrett .
hi . i 'm cooper barrett .
- hi .
- there it is .
_
pretty great , right ?
can 't buy publicity like that . free sample .
oh , thanks . this makes it seem like you run the company by yourself . yeah , you don 't even mention us one time in this whole thing .
" barry 's grandma 's hangover cure , " not cooper 's .
your grandma hasn 't been hungover a day in her life !
come on , guys , let 's focus on the big picture , all right ?
that company , hangender , won this award three years in a row , and we just beat them . it 's not about individual credit . plus , i would have sung your praises
- if i was given the opportunity .
- " when asked how he was able
" to accomplish so much , he credited the inspiration of steve jobs and a good night 's sleep . "
yeah , you 're right . that was my window , i blew it .
- i 'm sorry . i ...
- " and later , he wished to thank
" his two best friends : hard work
- and determination . "
- oh , guys , i messed up .
but it was a phone interview . i mean , you guys know i value you and your ideas .
yeah , hold that thought .
get your free sample .
barry 's grandma 's hangover cure ?
- i 've heard that stuff 's made in an apartment , and you can taste pig feces .
what ?
where 'd you hear that ?
" barry 's grandma 's hangover cure is made in an apartment with pig feces . "
that 's simply untrue .
i mean , he hasn 't had an accident in weeks .
i mean , if they would have said pig urine ...
there 's comments from this coopersucks person all over the net .
obviously , the person who 's posting this has inside information , so they can do serious damage to our business , if they haven 't already .
okay , so how do we find out who this coopersucks69 is ?
i 'm one step ahead of you , sir .
i 've traced the ip address , and it looks like it 's someone ... in our apartment building .
- what do you want ?
- hey , virgil .
uh ... someone 's been trolling barry 's grandma 's hangover cure online .
uh , you wouldn 't happen to know anything about that , would you ?
what is ... trolling ?
uh , it means people are making fun of us on the internet .
ooh . which site do i do that ?
we 're not telling you to do that .
oh , i 'll find out .
i have so many " barry 's grandma 's so fat " jokes .
what ?
!
do you really think mrs. billingsly is our troll ?
she 's , like , 90 years old .
well , we have to cross everyone in the building off our list .
you know what ?
i haven 't seen her in a few weeks . come to think of it , neither have i .
well , at least she led a good life .
actually , i think she collaborated in the armenian genocide . but still , neat lady .
i don 't get it . we 've checked every apartment .
well , not every apartment .
i can 't believe it .
i never would 've suspected it .
what are you guys doing in my apartment ?
welcome home ...
kelly .
or should we say , coopersucks69 ?
wait .
were the first 68 coopersucks already taken ?
this is impossible .
had anyone else in your apartment recently ?
- any male visitors , perhaps ?
- or poltergeists ?
i seen this episode of ghost hunters where this one ghost went into this one dude 's account and messed up his credit . spooky .
no guys or ghosts have been in my apartment .
i 'm the only one who uses this computer .
oh , and ramona .
wait , wait , wait , hold up . say ramona 's last name is miller .
- right ?
- you 're already forgetting her name .
you slept with her , didn 't you ? !
- you said she was a trainer ?
- yeah . so ?
because ramona miller is not a personal trainer .
she is the president and ceo of hangender , our main competitor .
what ?
she clearly saw us as a threat , posed to be your friend , just to get info about us to try to take us down !
to think , i almost slept with her .
come to think of it , she was asking a lot of questions about your company .
why the hell you tell her about our pig feces ?
why are you living in an apartment with pig feces ?
it 's stinking up the entire building .
i think that smell was mrs. billingsly .
what happened to mrs. billingsly ?
honey ,
- i 'm so sorry .
- oh , my god !
i lose two of my best girlfriends in one day ? i 'm gonna punch ramona in her lying , flawless face !
best plan is to get even .
i have an idea how to do that .
so do i , so what we do is ...
we all listen to neal because i value his ideas .
- really ?
- mm-hmm .
thanks , coop .
okay , kelly , first , you 're gonna take ramona out to brunch .
but don 't let on that you know who she really is .
sorry . you 're doing great .
just pretend like it 's a normal brunch . and then i punch her in the face .
no . you make witty conversation .
so , tell me about all that personal training
- that you definitely do for a living .
- oh , you know ,
- lots of burpees , that sort of thing .
- oh .
will you excuse me ?
i have to go to the bathroom really quick .
and then when she 's not paying attention , you take her computer and pass it off to barry in disguise .
- fake mustache and tuxedo ?
- no !
cooper , be supportive . yes , barry , like that , but , you know , something better .
got it .
barry , you 'll go to the kitchen where you 'll find me and cooper waiting .
- what is he doing here ?
- i 'm meeting leslie next door for lunch . i heard you guys were hiding in the kitchen .
- by the way , it 's me , barry .
- i know .
- you look like neil degrasse tyson .
- interesting .
- just like the milky way .
- come on , neal .
hurry up ! got to get it before she gets back from the restroom .
she should really update this thing .
- i mean , os 7 ? total noob .
- neal !
got the data . all right . out .
all we have to do is return it before ramona gets back .
unless josh 's wife comes by , notices kelly , and ruins the entire plan .
welcome to my life .
- kelly !
- leslie !
i thought i saw you .
hey .
you know what ? i 'm glad i 'm running into you , because i feel like we need to reconnect .
why is ... ? what-what is she doing here ?
leslie , you remember ramona , right ?
hi .
you didn 't answer my question .
please go do something .
i mean , i 'm ...
i 'm gonna meet my husband . we 're gonna go have brunch
- next door .
- go .
socially , you know ,
- i 'm pretty covered .
- hey , babe !
- oh .
hi .
- what are you doing here ?
i was just walking by , saw you ladies chatting it up .
uh , look at that . shoelace is untied .
- dangerous . there it is .
- yeah .
so you guys , like , hang out all the time ?
nope , wasn 't untied .
it was actually tied the whole time .
- thank god . - we should go . we got a res .
- right , yeah .
- bouncedy-bounce .
yeah , okay , bye .
just so you know , 37 followers on instagram , so , you know , super popular .
- she doesn 't care .
- okay .
and once we successfully
- put it back in ramona 's bag ...
- bye !
... go through her data , cancel her orders , and later , cooper will call to contact her clients .
well , i am sorry to hear that they canceled , but we have a vehicle in your area which can get our product to you within the hour .
all right , thanks so much .
bye-bye .
- oh , yeah .
- mm . can you believe it ? your plan worked .
yeah , cooper , i can believe it .
can you believe that our nearest star , alpha centauri , is only four light years away ?
can i just say , i am really enjoying your neil degrasse tyson .
it is fun and informative .
you know what else is fun ?
the milky way .
no , you already used that one .
pluto is one-third water . there he is !
this fancy hotel looks a lot like a biker bar .
it 's like an episode of sons of anarchy that doesn 't end well .
i 'm pretty sure there is no episodes of sons of anarchy
- i 'm telling you , this is the address listed on ramona 's work order .
this is cooper .
hey , cooper .
this is ramona miller .
- i 'm actually ...
- the president and ceo
- of hangender . i know exactly who ...
- who i am ?
i know that you know , but here 's something you don 't know .
that order you took from me was a fake .
- what order ?
- moron , give it up . i 've been one step ahead of you this whole time .
you may be easy on the eyes , but that doesn 't mean that you know how to run a business .
first rule is , don 't ever work with your friends .
second rule is shut up .
you 're obviously flailing here . let me put you out of your misery and buy your company from you .
you didn 't listen to the second rule .
hmm .
we 've been set up .
let 's get out of here before we get ourselves killed .
yep .
that was a close one .
okay . hi . there 's so many of you .
okay .
- hi , guys . hi .
- uh , okay .
hey , guys .
what are you doing ?
they gonna kill us anyway .
- he 's not with us !
- sorry !
my mustache fell off when they threw me through that window .
mercury has ...
damn !
all my space facts are gone , neal !
okay .
tell me everything .
did you rub it in ramona 's face yet ?
uh , things didn 't exactly work out .
ramona tricked us into going to a biker bar , and ...
come on , cooper .
tell everybody what you 're really thinking .
what am i really thinking ?
" uh , the reason i don 't listen to your ideas , neal , is " because the one time that i do , we get outsmarted by a rival " and thrown through a window .
" maybe , neal , instead of complaining " that you don 't get enough credit , you should acknowledge
" that i 'm the brains of the operation . just sit your nerdy face down in front of a computer ! "
- easy , cooper .
- " and you , you big bastard , get your ass back in the kitchen and handle the product ! "
you know what , cooper , you 've gone too far !
i 'm out !
- i hope you 're happy .
- i didn 't even say anything .
okay , i don 't even know who 's yelling at who here , but we need to focus on ramona .
so there 's no truth to what i said ?
- well , it was your plan . but ...
- oh , my god .
some words you can 't take back , cooper !
you have to go after neal .
don 't you see ?
dividing you guys like this , this is exactly ramona 's plan .
okay .
i think you 're giving her a little too much credit .
- hey , neal .
- oh , my god .
i heard you 're unhappy with cooper .
mm . yeah , it 's not going well .
you should 've heard the things he said to me .
you know that i think you 're incredibly impressive and that i value what you do .
thank you .
what is it that i do ?
the viral marketing .
your web site . the entire database you set up was brilliant .
your idea for pajama tuesdays .
full disclosure , i just didn 't feel like wearing clothes that day .
we could really use your skills at hangender . and ... this would be your starting salary .
i 'm sorry , is this some sort of joke ?
i mean , cooper and i are best friends .
i 'm not gonna let one little petty f ...
this is hangender .
- you 've reached neal fissley 's office .
- oh , louise ?
can you confirm my massage will be on a table and not one of those airport chairs ?
and , uh , i 'm out of lollipops , so ... thank you .
i can 't let her get away with taking neal .
i 'll help you get her back , but it could get ugly .
she pulls a knife , you pull a gun .
she puts one of yours in the hospital , you put one of hers in the morgue .
oh , i 've been dying to use that line from the untouchables since ' 87 . may not have been worth it .
it 's not about revenge , okay ? it 's about business .
and if i want to succeed , i got to beat ramona at her own game .
well , what are you prepared to do , cooper ?
- that 's not helpful . - welcome to the rock .
- hello , ramona .
- hey , cooper .
if you 're looking for a job , i 'm afraid neal 's
- already hired an assistant .
- that 's not why i 'm here .
oh , good , because the girl who got the job
- is way more qualified than you .
- if you 're done ,
i have a little proposal for you :
you give me neal back , and i 'll forgive the attack on my company and i promise
counterproposal :
i keep neal , bankrupt your company , and you come back to my place and we get rid of the sexual tension between us .
interesting idea .
let me consider / fantasize about that for a second .
not gonna lie , that was amazing . but i still have to reject your offer .
that 's too bad .
i have lots of mirrors , and i had a terrible childhood .
listen , ramona , you have no idea what you 're up against .
i think i have a pretty good idea .
you may have neal , but i have a better product .
and i still have barry sandel .
hi , barry .
i wanted to discuss ... look , i know why you 're here and i 'm not interested .
but if you could just hear me out for one second , i think ...
it 's my grandmother 's sweat and tears in this cure , okay ?
literally . that 's the two main ingredients .
look , i know cooper likes to hog all the credit and he called me a big bastard , but at the end of the day , we are still friends .
our break room has a milkshake machine .
this is hangender . barry sandel 's office . hangender rules !
totally .
louise !
why am i seeing the bottom of my lollipop jar ?
- thank you . - all right , josh , let 's get ugly .
coyote ugly .
it was on after the untouchables .
weird double feature .
starz is the best .
- all right , let 's go .
- yeah .
it 's not gonna work .
- we should 've gone with my plan .
- oh , yeah . three stink bombs and a " ramona sucks ! " banner .
you know what , we 'll do that right after we tp her house and leave a bag of poo on the front step .
i love that . one tweak : fire .
what 's going on ?
just whipping up tons of the cure for bev con .
it 's a beverage conference .
we already have a better product and if we can outsell ramona at bev con , her company will be destroyed and our company 's rise will be documented in the next little-seen aaron sorkin film .
" our company " ?
you 're the only one left in your company . okay , i don 't need those guys . i was doing everything anyway .
i can 't read barry 's writing . does this say " cinnamon " or " cyanide " ?
you should probably just assume cinnamon .
oh , oh , oh . check it out .
♪ dun , dun , dun ♪
- jelly beans .
- oh .
what 's in this one ?
gummy worms !
josh , can we just focus ?
i need you to ... chop up 400 onions and then , uh , throw half of them away .
- what ?
- it 's barry 's process , so ...
cooper , the reason you got into this company is so you could build something great with your friends .
maybe you should go and apologize .
it 's too late .
they made their choice .
i came here because cooper is too stubborn ...
what ?
!
i came here because cooper is too stubborn to tell you how much he needs you guys .
and you need him .
i don 't need anything except for my milkshakes delivered freezing cold !
i 'm talking 32 degrees fahrenheit , scottie , okay ?
that 's fahrenheit !
- son of a bitch .
- guys ,
ramona doesn 't value your ideas .
she just brought you here to undermine cooper .
i went and looked at your offices ... you don 't even have computers !
yeah , ' cause our assistants take dictation ... of our lunch orders and our dreams and cool inventions that we have .
hey , kelly .
nice to see you .
oh ...
that 's the spirit .
ramona , kelly seems to you think that we 're just pawns and that you actually don 't value our ideas . that 's ridiculous .
okay , name one of them .
um ...
like the commercial we did about the girls in bikinis talking to girls in bikinis . bikini-bikini .
no . that 's terrible .
- i worked two days on that .
- that was cream of the crop .
okay , fine , you 're pawns .
but you 're well-paid pawns with offices and assistants .
kelly .
due to recent events , this milkshake has become less delicious .
it 's still a free milkshake .
that 's true .
- you guys are worse than cooper .
- what ?
!
and he 's the worst .
- huh ?
!
- huh ?
!
cures your hangover .
yes , hangender ends the hang in the hangover , in the hangover .
- hangender !
hangender !
- hey , guys .
you 're doing great .
just stay in cooper 's eyeline and remember ...
don 't talk to anybody .
don 't touch anything .
perfect .
barry 's grandma 's hangover cure is made from an age-old recipe .
comes straight from a real grandmother who used to get hungover quite a bit , so ...
okay , just , uh ...
so how many cases do you guys want ?
uh ...
guys , i 'm really going to need you to step it up .
we 're working for free . and i 'm drunk from the hard lemonade booth .
would you like brochures ?
you were right .
i 'll be right back .
hey , guys . just , uh , wanted to say that i should 've given you guys more credit for everything you did for the company and i 'm really glad you guys landed somewhere great .
cooper , we 're kind of busy right now .
okay , understood .
just ...
just as long as we ...
call scottie and set up an appointment .
okay .
everyone .
welcome , everyone .
as you all know , hangover cures are becoming a billion dollar industry , and we 've got the best one in the business .
my wonderful team has worked tirelessly to bring you this incredible video that will introduce you to our brand . a video ?
oh , come on .
hangender was founded by president and ceo ramona miller in 2011 after a bachelorette party gone wrong in las vegas .
oh , yeah , they 're happy .
- she looks good .
- hangender is made from only the freshest and natural ingredients .
fresh berries , figs , pubic hair , filth from humans and pig 's poop .
what ?
wait .
what 's going on ?
ew !
ramona miller does not care about black people .
no !
i love black people .
what ?
oh , that 's not okay .
turn it off . turn it off ! and ...
hangover cures for life .
move out of the way !
get out of here .
- it 's the best .
- that 's right .
who came up with that ?
what are you talking about ?
we did .
of course you did .
- that was a great idea , man .
- that was amazing .
all right , let 's get back to work . let 's get back to work .
- all right .
let 's go .
- yay !
- oh , hi . come on , come on , come on . - gather round , gather round .
this has no pubic hair in it .
no poo .
hey , guys .
i just wanted you to meet my new best girlfriend , renee .
my name is shawna .
we have tons in common and we 're pretty much inseparable besties .
uh , you must be josh .
no . no that one . kelly .
did you meet renee ?
look at her .
you 're so lucky .
ramona turned out to be , like , a ruthless shark , but she got hers .
so you and ramona aren 't friends anymore ?
you 're free to hang out ?
- yeah , of course .
- oh , cool .
renee , i 'm going to have to ask you to leave .
it 's shawna .
why are you still here ?
girls can be so clingy .
so , working with friends ... it can be hard but it can be done .
all you have to do is admit when you 're wrong and more importantly than anything , admit when they 're right . and don 't let your pig bathe in your hangover cure . and maybe don 't own a pig .
ramona .
are you , uh , here to apply for the bartender position ?
no , i came to congratulate you guys on bev con and to ask how you 'd feel about joining forces .
- absolutely not .
- what ?
- she 's crazy .
- welcome to the rock .
the bottom line is you guys have the better product but you don 't have the resources to get it out there .
i do and i think together we 'd be unstoppable .
what do you say ?
i don 't know .
i have to ask my partners .
so don 't be afraid to team up with the people you love the most , because when it comes to work , it 's always wise to keep your friends close ...
let 's do it .
good call . ... and your enemies closer .
episode 1 war of empire japan , during the yongsama syndrome , went crazy for the korean entertainment industry . and its effect on the korean economy was 1.196 trillion won . ( about us $ 1 billion )
the effect on korean economy that lee young ae , a top star in 60 countries , made is 3 trillion won . ( a little less than 3 billion dollars ) ms. lee young ae , even if she 's now married with kids , she 's still beautiful , of course . they may imagine " what if bae yong joon , who is still single , was my man "
but the women are not going crazy because of his fine six-pack . the central reason is hallyu - because korean dramas exist , he is receiving love . as per one book which is written by one expert of the korean broadcasting system , even if young people in vietnam don 't know the name of their chief secretary of the communist party , it 's said that there is nothing they don 't know about hallyu star jang dong geon .
through hallyu , the yearly export surplus on general merchandise is 27 trillion won .
this includes , of course , exported dvds of our dramas and ost music , the local handphones which appear in dramas , the cosmetics in dramas , even up to the cars they drive in the dramas .
money . everything is turned into money .
theddukbokkiwe ordinarilyeat onthestreet isenjoyedlikeafirstrateitalianpastawhichisordered to eat .
at the moment they put the ddukbokki , a top star ate in a drama , into their mouths :
( in japanese ) it 's delicious !
( in japanese ) it 's awesome , isn 't it ?
they have fallen for korea now .
i can 't be in love with you ( french )
look at this !
i 've never seen something like that .
they are in love with our korean tv dramas .
( in japanese ) you 're in the way !
even japan , the country which gave the degradation of colonization for 36 years .
the country that considers the land of koguryeo as their land - china .
the country of ghenghis khan , who succeeded in winning the largest territory in world history - mongolia .
( in mongolian ) got it !
dramas of no other country but korea !
they are crazy about our dramas .
cut scene !
did you just spit on me ?
!
sorry , sorry .
director , i can 't work like this .
to catch just one percent in the viewer ratings ...
just a bit .
our dramas , which the whole world is watching .
money !
anthony kim empire production representative
because they turn into money .
m-o-n-e-y .
money .
to make a drama that turns into money we need to use a writer who makes money .
of course we have to use actors who make money . right now , " elegant revenge , " produced by our empire production company , including its writer jeong hong joo , the money that was paid for the script for the last 7 years in my company ?
the cost for the castings is only 86 billions , 950 millions and 41 won .
with rounding it up , it 's 87 billion won ( us $ 87 million ) . and out of a total of 29 dramas that were aired i made 27 a success .
i 'm moving within the accurate probability .
and that probability is exactly made by my hand .
everyone , can you tell me what a drama is ?
a drama is a war with numbers .
over there !
representative , you said that out of your total 29 dramas , 27 succeeded .
then , what is the reason why the other two dramas failed ?
that means that the dramas you will make in the future can possibly fail too .
ah , of course , you 're right .
the thing that made those two dramas fail ... unless , in 2002 , the world cup which made all people in korea go crazy with red devil fever and mad-cow disease beef controversy of may , in 2008 , happens again !
i 'll absolutely never fail .
therefore people call the ring i 'm wearing " lord of the rings , "
and they call me the " king of dramas . " everybody , the third-class people change the world , and the first-class ... enjoys that world .
representative , what is the secret of your success ?
representative !
you 've already extended the term of the loan for 10 million won ( us $ 10,000 ) four times .
yes .
your address is still the same , right ?
you 're a drama writer ?
yes .
lee go eun " elegant revenge , " a secondary writer .
i really like dramas .
what have you written ?
elegant revenge .
elegant revenge ?
!
wow ! it 's the last day , today !
i 'm a huge fan !
i had no idea such a young person was the writer of that drama .
i 'm ... just a secondary writer .
by secondary writer , you run errands ... well , i also run errands , but the real work i do ... anyway , i think you wrote your job incorrectly .
huh ?
strictly speaking , you 're not a writer .
no , but being a secondary writer is a tough job .
anyway , fix it .
this is wrong , too .
you have to write " jobless . "
excuse me .
excuse me !
a secondary writer is also a job . for 365 days per year , sleeping bit by bit , doing all little chores like cleaning and laundry , we 're also writing each word to get paid !
therefore , i 'm not jobless !
what ?
i 've paid that dirty expensive interest without missing even once , and made your bank gain profit !
i got the loan from the bank , not from you , ajumma ! i don 't have much time now , so before pulling out my dirty temper , process this one . quickly !
except for the last 10 minutes of this final episode , we 've sent all the rest of the tapes to be edited .
managing director oh jin wan empire production 's # 2 person the shooting team is now standing by at samcheok , gangwondo .
and 10 hours ...
there are only ten hours left until the broadcast !
writer jeong said she can 't write .
can 't write ?
she said she can 't write about that orange juice as ppl ( product placement advertisement ) , so the script for the last part isn 't done yet .
so , how much percent ?
pardon ?
so how much percent of the probability to miss the broadcasting time ?
well , i 'm not so good at math ...
i majored in literature , so ...
there 's not enough time .
jeong hong joo elegant revenge 's main writer , a career 20-yr veteran .
[ mad dog in cheongdamdong ] yes , writer jeong , you 're working hard even in this situation that the time is exactly money .
working hard ?
well ..
i 'm writing this , not even eating a proper meal !
that 's why i sent 10 packs of fresh , exceptional orange juice .
haven 't you tasted it yet ?
representative kim ... it 's a classy and suitable juice for you , a writer getting paid 20 million won per episode .
this is the scene that our main character will die elegantly after finishing his revenge .
so does it make sense for him to drink orange juice there ?
writer , you know the hitter with a legendary rate , yang joon hyeok of the samsung lions .
when there was a rumor about trading him to another team , he said ;
" in my body , blue blood is running ! " ( samsung lions uniform 's color )
this is a sentence of faith for him to keep his loyalty to the team .
writer jeong , right now , in my body , yellow blood is running . ( without honorifics )
is it so difficult to make the main character drink orange juice ?
what ?
!
did you just talk down to me ?
would i only talk down to you ? i can kick you out too , writer jeong !
how dare you kick me out ?
hey !
i 'm ...
i 'm jeong hong joo !
dramas may be art to you for all i know , but to me they are business .
and with that one pack of orange juice , 300 million won is on the line . if you 're not going to give up my precious 800 million won , which you 've been paid so far for the script , then right now , add orange juice into the script !
what if i don 't ?
this isn 't a request .
this is the order from the owner who hired you .
orange ?
orange juice my ass !
i 'm back !
you , seriously ... !
go eun , does this make sense ?
huh ?
the main character who is about to have a heroic death dies after drinking the orange juice of ppl ( product placement advertisement ) ? does it make sense ?
what kind of crazy guy would do this ?
-who else ...
the cheongdamdong crazy dog .
elegant revenge final episode , the end .
go eun ...
correct any typos and send it to them .
yes .
oh , teacher ...
what did you do with that orange juice ?
go eun ...
the real artist should not compromise for a dirty shoppy businessman .
you 've worked really hard , too .
then , i 'm leaving now .
teacher !
even so , what should i say if the production company calls ?
tell him that i 'm gone under the water .
( implying " disconnect all contact lines " )
i 'm leaving .
okay ... go carefully .
oh !
representative , the ending has just arrived .
the phone you called is not available now ... representative , it 's already 1 : 30pm .
why don 't you just tell them to feed that orange juice to the actors and shoot the final scene ?
where did that orange juice come from ?
huh ?
before the main character dies , where did he get it from so that he drinks it ?
ah , well ... that ...
but , about that ... it was exposed 7 times , and one of them should be at least 10 seconds . for that , we got 300 million won ( $ 300,000 ) .
from the location to the description , dialogue , entire scene needs to be corrected .
but ... now we have only 8 and half hours until the on-air time .
if writer jeong says she can 't write it , what else can we do ?
yes , chairman .
how did it go ?
according to chief moon , the ending tape hasn 't even arrived yet .
please don 't worry , tonight 's show will be aired without any problem .
at this rate , what if the broadcasting accident ( going blank ) happens ?
chairman ...
i am anthony .
that will never happen .
i worried for nothing .
i forgot for a moment that you are anthony .
after the show is finished , i will report back to you .
i 'll talk to you later .
representative , what should we do ?
what is the secondary writer 's name ?
lee go eun .
representative !
that 's right , i 'm anthony kim .
teacher isn 't here .
i already know that .
representative ?
actually , a moment ago , writer jeong had a car accident .
teacher ?
she was on her way back to here , as she promised to correct the script .
but at the intersection right over there , she had a three-car rear-end collison .
th ...
then is teacher ... okay ?
don 't worry , i 've checked on her getting rest and falling asleep at er with my own eyes .
which hospital is it ?
before writer jeong fell asleep , she asked you , miss lee go eun , to correct the script .
me ?
she said that you 're a very competent writer , who is like her other half .
but ... what did she say to correct .... ?
what do you mean , " what " ? of course , it 's about the orange juice .
that orange juice ... she said i should write that ?
yes , right .
you need to correct that orange juice scene .
there is no way that teacher told me to do so .
she also said that you would answer like that .
then , from the location to stage direction and dialogue of the characters ...
up to the scene that the character dies after drinking the orange juice .
you 're saying she said that i should correct all of them ?
that 's why i came here personally , not just called , although i 'm so busy now .
really ?
!
do you ... think i 'm telling a lie ?
n-no .
we don 't have much time ...
start writing !
the time ... time 's running out .
writer jeong said that there is a pretty good one among your practice scripts .
ah , " morning of kyeong seong " ?
that 's right !
the touching story with the background of the japanese occupation era .
y-yes .
writer jeong told me to see that right away .
please bring that to the company tomorrow .
if you finish this one well , you can debut with the next show .
i guarantee you .
let 's go !
debut ...
let 's go .
while we 're going , you should write the scene and send it to the team .
here ...
then ... now ...
that 's right .
we 're going to the filming location in samcheok .
let 's go .
think well , how we can make the story that the main character drinks the orange juice and die .
the issue here is where he gets the orange juice from .
that 's right .
buying the orange juice doesn 't make sense , and receiving it from someone else is also ... on top of that , you should manage as little change of what we 've already filmed as possible .
then ...
ah !
the construction site !
the last revenge place for the main character is happening in the construction site , scene # 68 .
action scene in between the orange juice boxes ...
- orange juice bottles rolling and falling down !
- picking up the orange juice ?
- so then the ending ...
- drink it .
bang ! -okay , we 'll go with that .
oh , director hong ! leave the camera rails as they are , we 've just sent you the corrected script for scene # 66 and # 67 .
ah , you send the script for scene # 66 and # 67 ?
the main character 's phone scene at the hospital , cut it at the phone booth nearby .
the hospital and cut ? yes . move , move , quickly !
orange juice boxes and the distribution center , i 'm working on it now .
once the shooting is done , move from the beach ..... and take the road , 520m to the north from where you are .
road ?
i told you the distribution center .
there is one deserted storage unit .
hurry up to rent that place and set up that place as close to the distribution center as possible and shoot there .
how much time to get there ?
yes , we 'll arrive at 7 : 04pm .
we 'll be there in 2 hours and 35 minutes .
check the script in 3 seconds .
managing director oh , call the broadcasting station and let them send a helicopter .
- a helicopter ?
- yes .
also arrange a quick service motorbike from the shooting site to the helicopter .
ah , y-y-yes !
scene # 69 is done !
send it first by e-mail and move on to the next scene !
well , hurry up , please !
we don 't have much time .
be careful !
it 's the end !
prepare it quickly !
yes !
hey ! isn 't the smoke too much , huh ?
- the script is here !
- okay , okay ! okay ...
action !
cut !
okay !
let 's move !
everybody !
we 'll move to the next location !
here is the next script .
what ... ?
the final ending ?
we still don 't have it .
then what are we supposed to do ?
!
what time is it ?
yes , it 's ... 5 .. 5 : 27pm .
hey !
move , move , quickly ! go !
go ! hey , move all the equipment and go !
representative , the final ending ... so , how many minutes for its running time in m broadcasting ?
it 's 65 minutes and 20 seconds .
m broadcasting engineer anthony 's planted spy .
just now , director jeong went to the control room with the tape .
alright .
let 's make one more scene .
huh ?
the drama of m broadcasting ( implying " mbc " ) has 65 minutes and 20 seconds until the ending , and k broadcasting ( " kbs " ) one is already finished . so , we should make it 1 minutes and 30 seconds longer than m broadcasting 's drama , so that the rating can be over 30 % .
isn 't it too fake ?
yesterday 's rating was 24 % , but how can it be over 30 % even if i write one more scene ?
the possibility that viewers will change the channel to another drama after watching their favorite drama is usually 52.3 % .
moreover , our drama will have it 's final episode today .
the possibility that viewers will watch our drama at the moment of one and half minutes when other dramas are finished ?
82.7 % .
but ... after killing off all characters , there is only one scene left , where the main character will die alone , so what story can i make more ... ?
so , that 's your job anyway . in this situation when we don 't even have time to shoot the additional scene , if we have to add one more scene ?
then ...
should we go with flashback scene ?
that 's correct !
yes , representative . among the scenes we 've filmed before , please edit one flashback scene quickly which possibly comes in mind of the main character , right before he dies .
flashback ?
it will be inserted right before the ending scene .
running time should be about one and half minute .
yes , i got it !
representative , look at this .
" main character , walking with a pack of orange juice ... " " drinking orange juice , " " orange juice "
okay , let 's go with that .
the last script arrived !
move , move !
the rest , get out !
good , good , the last scene . once we 're done with this , it 's done !
from now on , the war is started .
read-y-y-y-y !
action !
the representative came .
they are doing the final scene .
cut !
hey !
orange juice close-up !
let 's shoot the close-up of the orange juice !
cut !
okay !
the end !
good job .
hurry , hurry , hurry !
good job .
i 've filmed it as you told me to do , but from here to seoul , it takes at least 4 hours .
there are less than 3 hours till the on-air time .
don 't worry , the helicopter will be used .
excuse me , representative . i 've just got a message , but because of the bad weather in seoul , the helicopter can 't come .
you useless bastard !
what about the quick-service motorbike ?
well , he 's over there .
pd park , wrap it one more time .
yes .
how much are you earning for a month ?
about 2 million won ( $ 2,000 ) .
why ? to s broadcasting station ( " sbs " ) in seoul , not in kangwondo , if you arrive there in an hour , i will give you 10 million won ( $ 10,000 ) . if you 're late by 10 minutes , 5 million won , if you 're late by 10 more minutes again , 2 million won , after than , not even a penny .
think you can do it ?
director park , lend me that motorcycle .
huh ?
representative ?
ah ... yes .
from here to seoul , 293.8 km . ( about 160 miles ) the possibility that biker goes in 300km per hour and arrives there alive is 36.2 % .
if he and i , two of us go ... it 's 72.4 % .
representative kim !
it 's dangerous !
you can die !
anyway , life is 50 : 50 .
i can 't ruin my life because of that half . what i 'm afraid of more than death , it 's failure .
what are you doing ?
yes ?
the script is here , here ( in your brain ) , so to edit the scenes , you should come with me !
what ?
even at this moment while you 're hesitating , the possibility is getting lower , bit by bit .
get on ...
now !
oh , director !
the tape ... has the tape arrived ?
they say it 's on its way .
lee seong jo ( elegant revenge 's present cp ) moon sang il ( s broadcasting station 's drama director ) until the air-time , now there are only 30 minutes left .
kim byeong seok ( s broadcasting station 's deputy drama director ) nam woon hyeong ( s broadcasting station 's cp )
what ?
what happened ?
i-is this 911 ?
the place is ... there is an accident at route # 7 , kangreung junction , near the ramp toward yeongdong highway .
it 's a motorbiker , and the condition is serious .
are you crazy ? if we leave him like that , he will die , he will !
what on earth is a drama to you so that it 's more important than a person 's life ?
so what can i do at this moment ? !
in this field , you should throw away everything else for a drama !
director ... he 's not picking up the phone .
hey !
it has already been 33 minutes since the show has started !
you 're the cp in charge of this show , but are you out of your mind ? hey , this is not a regular episode , but the final episode ! the final one !
have you ever seen a final episode without it 's ending ?
!
well .. that ... s ... even if you have to use a satelite , find out where he is now ! director !
the tape has arrived .
yeah .
director , they just started the editing .
how many minutes are left until the ending ?
yes , 5 minutes and 20 seconds left .
will they be able to edit within the time ?
they must do even if they all die .
before this scene , the main character rides a motorbike to go to the distribution center .
they must have filmed it all together at the end .
let 's cut it and paste it .
director , the rating is continuously rising .
how many more minutes are left ?
yes , 2 minutes and 50 seconds left .
it 's done .
43 .
44 .
now , we have only 15 seconds .
hurry , hurry !
director ... the dramas of other broadcasting stations are all done for today .
the time of death ... november 5th , 2010 .
30.9 % !
director !
we 're the highest one !
hey , you did a good job .
you 've worked hard !
director !
good , good !
you asked me earlier what on earth a drama is .
this is the drama we make .
wow .
they say that people make a condolence call when the dog of a prime minister dies , but not when that prime minister actually dies .
what you say now means ... the mother , of the minister of culture and tourism , is a dog ?
no ...
i didn 't mean that ...
of course not .
all the real dogs are gathered over there .
mutts which got wind of food smell in the party and came to get the food .
representative , yesterday 's quick-service rider ... passed away at the end .
sorry to hear that .
that damn motorbike !
i 'll crush that right away !
calm down , sister-in-law .
let go of me , brother-in-law !
to earn those few pennies of money , my husband died .
how can i calm down now .... ?
but what can we do now ?
life goes on anyway .
this shouldn 't have happened .... calm down , sister-in-law ....
how can i live now ... ?
go eun 's mother , please calm down .
do you think i can calm down now ?
we bought a boat to go fishing , not to kill my husband ! let go of me ! let go of me !
stop .
no need to cry .
don 't cry .
don 't cry .
what can i do .... ?
please ! please !
because of the motorbike , i lost my husband .
what shall i do .... ?
what will i do for my child ?
i 'm so angry .... dear lord of love , for us gathering here for sorrow , despair and darkness to lose the deceased , please lead us with your holy spirit and grace and please let us live on with faith and hope .
in the name of jesus , amen .
she must be resting in peace , embraced by lord .
thank you , representative kim .
oh , you 're here .
representative kim , congratulations .
drama director of k broadcasting . drama director of m broadcasting .
you 've continued the legend of " empire " with an unbeaten performance .
oh , thank you .
this time , because of the rating of your " elegant revenge , " we 've had really hard time .
your next one will be done with us , right ?
i 'm sorry .
i was going to visit you next week .
good , good . let 's have a meal next week , for sure .
with me , what about a round of golf on this saturday ?
uh , oh , what are you talking about now ?
representative kim , you should do your next show with us again , okay ?
you must be busy , so you can leave .
yes , then i will take my leave now .
- such a jerk !
- what a rude bastard !
right now , he 's hot . but some day , he will fall .
when it comes , let 's step on him surely .
all the directors are so impatient now .
yes , they are , so that they can rush to step on me once i misstep .
[ eun yi 's grilled mackerel ]
please give us more side dishes .
okay !
please give us one more grilled mackerel .
ah , yes .
ta-da !
oh , you 're here !
madame kang !
hey , what 's up with you ?
i 'm so busy now .
did you grill mackerel well with saulty flavor ?
i earned money with saulty flavor !
here , one more grilled mackerel , please !
okay !
hurry up , go put your bag inside and come out again .
mom , by the way ...
why ?
i have to send a script to the production company tonight , so please let me skip tonight .
then , will they pay you ?
of course ! once i debut , they will pay me .
got it !
go inside and earn money !
alright .
hello , this is writer jeong hong joo .
if you leave a message , i will call you back .
teacher , this is go eun .
i couldn 't reach you , so i 'm leaving a message again .
are you still at the hospital ?
you 're alright , right ?
by the way ...
did you see the last episode of " elegant revenge " ?
i tried hard to modify the script . thanks to you , i got the chance to debut .
thank you so much .
although i should thank you in person ... anyway , please give me a call .
it 's cancelled .
to leave a message , please press 1 .
to leave a phone number , please press 2 .
teacher , please give me a call .
i 'm so worried , and i have something to tell you in person too .
please give me a call .
please !
the message is saved .
[ morning of kyeongseong ]
writer :
lee go eun .
[ funeral home ] representative , no matter how much i think over and over , i think you 'd better not go in there ....
thank you .
by the way ... how do you know my brother .... ?
at the accident site , i was there with him .
then , the person who reported to 911 ... ?
and ...
i 'm also the one who requested the last delivery of the deceased .
the last delivery .... ? the deceased accepted my request to make a delivery within an hour for the distant taking three hours , and the reason he accepted that impossible request was because i offered to pay 10 million won .
that 's why the accident happened unintentionally .
then , you are .... the reason why my husband died ... ?
you bastard !
what 's the reason you came all the way here and say such things ?
after killing my brother , how dare you show up here !
?
please calm down , please !
if it were you , do you think you can calm down now ?
yes , yes , yes .
i thought it 's the right thing for me to tell you the exact situation why the deceased passed away .
and this .
what 's the use of such money ? my husband is dead now , so what 's the use of it !
? even so , don 't you think you gave them too much ?
it 's from your personal account .
well , i feel sorry for them too , but actually you don 't have any legal responsibility .
and he chose it on his own too .
i don 't think there is any reason for you to do that much ...
some one died while working for my drama .
and i 'm in charge of that drama .
is there any other reason needed ?
ah ... no .
but , are you really alright ?
don 't worry . the drama is finished , and starting tomorrow , for another drama ,
i will become a bad jerk again .
what can i help you with ?
i came for an appointment with representative kim .
your name is ... ?
i 'm lee go eun , a secondary writer for " elegant revenge . "
he told me to come here once .
ah , yes ...
ah , yes , i will send you that right away .
ah , yes , thank you for loving our drama , yes .
so , let 's stop there , after you ; ve knocked down all of them , i mean .
after finishing them , you will stop the motion , right there !
and ( breathing hard ) the sweat will run down , and then , cut ! this is it ! this is the great one !
miss lee go eun ?
yes .
representative kim is out of his office for a moment .
please wait inside for a moment
yes .
c.e.o. anthony kim
hello !
what brought you here ?
yes , you told me before .... oh , you did a good job before .
yes .
i came here because you told me before to bring my practice script .
oh , that 's right .
i 've prepared this one for 3 years .
it 's a historical drama with 20 episodes , and i wrote the script and synopsis up to 4 episodes ...
i got it .
i will contact you after reading them .
yes .
anything else ? yes , by any chance , which hospital is it that teacher jeong is admitted ?
" teacher jeong ... " ?
i mean writer jeong hong joo .
- anthony !
- i told you he 's not in the office now .
oh , she 's here now .
teacher !
so , it was you ? i was wondering which bastard dared to touch my script , but it was you !
teacher , what 's wrong with you ?
what 's wrong with me ?
hey ! i brought a country girl from busan , and taught and raised for 5 years , but now you dare to put your knife on your teacher 's script ?
ah , wait !
wait !
what do you mean " put my knife " ?
i did it because i was told that you asked me to do it !
who , who , who told you that ?
i know , right ?
who told you that ?
you told me so ! you came to the studio personally , and told me that teacher jeong had a car accident while she had to modify the script ! that 's why teacher asked me to modify it , so you said that the orange juice scene must be included !
i was attending church . you came to me personally and offered to modify the script , and in return , you brought your own script and asked me to read it .
but how come you blame me now ?
what did you say ?
so , your goal was to debut , i see .
no , that 's not true !
no , teacher ! i 'm really wronged now !
hey !
here is the obvious evidence , but how can you say it 's misunderstanding ?
teacher !
i 'm going to bury you in this drama industry field .
let go of me !
ah , teacher !
no , it wasn 't me ! i 'm saying it wasn 't me !
why on earth are you doing this to me ?
what do you mean ?
" what do you mean ? "
all my efforts with blood and sweat , built for the last 5 years , became nothing at once , but you 're saying " what do you mean ? "
i am sorry .
as promised , i will read your script and if it 's good , i 'll contact you .
do you think i will believe that ?
miss lee go eun .
do you know what is really innocent ?
focusing on the goal .
whether it 's money or success , i just focused on it innocently .
representative ! are you alright ?
i 'm fine , so just clean that up .
yes .
" morning of kyeongseong " ? japanese occupation era , in the wheels of history , a fierce life story of one man , who threw his identity away and risked his destiny .
genre :
noir
it 's a dark story which only costs a lot of money .
didn 't it spill on your clothing ?
get rid of this too !
yes .
ah , representative , the meeting is ready now .
let 's start .
representative !
we have a big problem !
drama " elegant revenge " which put a 40-year-old man to death .
what are you all doing now ?
actively explain and block all the media !
immediately !
yes , hello ? oh , reporter park , wait a second .
call lawyer park and let him prepare the press release for the explanation .
yes . all c.e.o.s of the daily newspapers , sport newspapers , internet media , editors and chiefs of portal sites which have been working with us , put all of them through to my room !
who ordered this " speeding of death " ? / netizens , furious about the production company 's c.e.o. / even bribed the deceased 's family ... / empire production 's cover-up for the accident ?
chief editor yoon dae sung of daehan daily is on the line 1 .
yes , chief , this is anthony .
oh , representative kim , what has happened ?
yes , i will tell you more details later .
chief , please block the articles first , though .
we will give you the press release soon for explanation or refutation . all other newspapers are putting up the story now , so we can 't take it out alone !
i will take care of other companies too , so please take that out immediately for now .
that 's , well .. ah , representative kim , i need to go for a meeting , so i will call you back a little later .
chief , chief !
c.e.o. kim jong chul of yonhop entertainment news is on the line 3 .
hello , this is anthony !
we 're also preparing the explanation press release , so you don 't have to worry about it .
please remove the articles now .
that 's why i 'm asking your favor .
you know i 've helped you a lot so far , chief .
this time , it 's your turn to help me , chief .
you shouldn 't do this to me , chief .
team leader park , we 've been partners for 5 years , you know that , right ?
i 'll not ask any more .
only three days , please block it for three days .
hello , hel ... ?
have you forgotten who helped you to your current position ? hello , hel ... ? have you forgotten who helped you to your current position ?
what ?
are you done talking ?
hey , you bastards !
i 'm the one who has given you money and articles so far !
representative !
right now , reporters are waiting in front of the company and requesting the interview .
at the end , this incident was the heartbreaking accident caused by the poor reality of drama production , which is also called " live show , " and by the greed of a mega drama production company pursuing only high ratings .
representative , mr. chairman is on the line .
speaking , mr. chairman .
regarding to this accident , the public demand by netizens is strong that the broadcasting station and the production company must actively work on the compensation for the family of the deceased .
anthony , i 'm really disappointed by you .
i 'm sorry . until tomorrow , the press release for refutation will be on and ...
no need to say anything further .
attend the meeting tomorrow for the board of directors .
mr. chairman ...
please give me some time to solve this .
i don 't care about other people , but at least you should trust me .
i 'm not saying i don 't know how you feel .
but shouldn 't i clean up the mess you made ?
you 're doomed now .
what do you mean " doomed " ?
who made " empire production " company as the number one in asia ?
how could you say i 'm doomed ?
because of me , " empire " is made .
the fame of " empire " is made because of me , anthony !
so what ?
even if i have to leave , i will leave with my own feet .
but i can 't just leave .
the writers i 've raised , i will leave with them all .
so are you saying you will fight till the end ? you know well , that baseball is dependent on a pitcher , and a drama is dependent on a writer .
fine . if you want , go ahead .
i don 't think you have much time , though , because i won 't stay still .
don 't regret .
secretary choi .
starting from top writer lee mi hun , writer kim , writer park , all others , put them through .
i 've read the article very well .
of course .
as i told you , you 've put even the photo really neatly .
anthony ?
what can he do now ?
i 'm not the only one who wishes that bastard goes under .
managing director , mr. chairman is on the line .
i will call you later again .
yes , mr. chairman .
since we don 't have much time , listen carefully to what i 'm about to say , director oh .
- yes .
- i fired anthony a minute ago .
do not let anthony take any of the writers of our company , not even a single one ! if you do this work properly , the next representative of " empire " will be you , director oh .
you can do that , right ?
yes , mr. chairman .
i 'll definitely finish this . secretary kim , before anthony , put writer lee mi hun through , and transfer all the lines , which secretary choi put through to anthony , to me !
all of them ! immediately ! writer kim , you 've hit the rating 50 % three times , but don 't you think the payment of 30 million won ( us $ 30,000 ) per episode from " empire " is too little ?
if you come with me , i will give you 40 million won .
writer park is on the line 2 .
then , please don 't hang up , and think it through for a moment .
secretary choi , what about writer lee ( mi hun ) ?
i couldn 't reach her yet .
by all means , put her through .
yes , writer park , this is anthony .
40 million won ?
writer kim , anthony is fired now , so he 's calling the number without thinking .
what will you do with the penalty for breach of the contract with " empire , " then ?
ah , you don 't need to concern about the penalty for breach of the contract .
i will get the investment and handle it right away . you know me well , i 'm anthony .
i admit that anthony is good and resouceful . yes , i admit that .
but , haven 't you heard about writer jeong ?
" elegant revenge " was mutilated by anthony .
what do you mean " mutilated " ?
it had the rating 30.2 % and was placed as the top .
i will treat you as a national writer , writer park .
what about 50 million won per episode ?
then , please don 't hang up , and think it through , yes .
secretary choi , what about writer lee ?
we didn 't request that side ... hey , excuse me !
ah , yes , yes , i got it .
i will give you more time to think about it .
writer lee is on the line 1 .
then , please don 't hang up , i will wait for your answer .
you .. you ... you !
what on earth are you ?
i 'm lee go eun who screwed up in this field because of you !
[ preview ]
what i 'm mad the most is that such a kind like you is acting up with the power in drama production field .
you will be doomed some day .
i 've always lived a fancy life .
of course , it 's not like that there was no shadow in my life .
by any chance , do you have about 3 million won ( $ 3,000 ) ?
the problem is that the shadow has been ...
are you in that much difficulty ?
continued since 3 years ago .
oh , i guess you have something to get some investment from japan .
about 10 billion won ... ?
- about 10 billion won ... ?
- 10 billion won ?
lee go eun , lee go eun ... yes , the name was definitely lee go eun ... go eun , don 't you want to make a drama ?
is this writer lee go eun ?
be quiet , please !
king of dramas , anthony can stand up again . to conquer the world again , i need you ,
lee go eun !
episode 2 thefallof thelord y-y-you ! what on earth are you ?
i 'm lee go eun who is screwed up in the industry because of you ! this is the most critical moment in my life . beat it !
because of money ... you screwed up what 's most important , my life ! what are all of you doing ? get her out of here !
please leave .
i 'll leave here when i 'm ready . what i 'm angry about the most is that my life has disintegrated because of you , a third-rate bottom feeder .
what i 'm mad the most about is ... that such a person like you is acting up with the power in the drama production field .
you ... will be doomed one day . by someone like you .
yes , writer lee . it 's me , anthony .
what are you looking at ?
!
if you , writer lee , is the top of " empire , " that means you 're the top nationally .
but the fact that the money you 're paid per episode was not the top level has always troubled me .
i will make you the most .
how about 60 million per episode ?
representative kim , i get your meaning .
i 'm driving right now .
let 's talk about it later .
ah , i need to go to a meeting .
instead of just hanging up , can you consider it ?
i 'm begging you , writer lee .
alright , then please give me 15 minutes .
yes , i got it .
let 's do that .
writer park , have you thought about it ?
i 'm sorry , representative kim . no matter how i think about it , i can 't do it because of the breach of contract penalty .
i told you i 'll take care of it at my end .
hello ?
writer kim , have you thought about it ? representative kim , i appreciate what you said .
let 's do it together next time .
there is no next time for my proposal .
also , 40 million won per episode means total 800 million won ! ( $ 800,000 ) . rather than getting 800 million won for working like a dog ,
i 'd rather take 600 million won and work like the prime minister .
hello ?
writer kim ...
shouldn 't you apologize first before talking about nothing but money first ?
hey , representative kim , because of you , i 've been recently living by taking sleeping pills .
how can you do that ?
since when did you respect me ?
i 'm hanging up .
representative kim , haven 't you been axed ?
axed ?
i left on my own two feet .
hello ?
hel ...
that !
[ name # 15 ] jeong hong joo
[ name # 1 ] lee mi heon
it has to be lee mi heon .
only lee mi heon .
writer lee , it 's me , anthony .
writer lee ?
what should i do , representative kim ?
jeong ...
writer jeong hong joo ?
that 's right .
it 's jeong hong joo .
were you expecting writer lee min heon ?
right now , she is beside me .
writer jeong , right now , i 'll apologize to you .
i 'm really , really sorry .
actually , i tried to immediately phone ...
you needn 't apologize .
you already know .
everybody wished to see you crash and burn .
anthony , you 're completely washed up .
umm ...
representative ?
the chairman said you should vacate the office right now .
3 years later ...
the representative has arrived !
you are here ?
i 've always lived a brilliant life .
in the brilliant life , there can be both the light and shadow .
of course , it doesn 't mean in my life , there are no shadows .
the problem here is that shadow has been continuously with me since three years ago until now .
however , i never felt unhappy . despite being axed from the company , despite the company 's bankruptcy for which i would have to shell out 30 billion won to start anew ; i was fine .
because i 'm not a kind of person who is obsessive about the past .
and i dreamed my comeback again .
however , in the industry , i notice everyone quietly avoids me .
after that , even the investments have been blocked and work has not gone well . even when i had no office , even moving again like that , even to the extent of selling my home , it was not bad .
but ...
even if my mother were to die , i am not a person who cries .
i don 't want to cry . i cannot fathom why throughout the past three years , without a regular fixed pattern , it 's like this .
i don 't think it is the case that there is no pattern .
whenever you feel anxious , you 're touching your finger .
three years ago , what is the story associated with that ?
although you are brushing it off with those words , it 's not so within your mind .
please , give me medicine . because we 've stopped your medication , we could find that ( pattern ) out .
but because i 've stopped the medication , i 'm crying again , aren 't i ?
i don 't have any more medication . please give me some more .
relying on medication cannot cure the disease .
you want to find out what causes mental instability fundamentally ...
so what is the percentage ?
what ?
!
i 'm asking what is the percentage of probability that i wouldn 't cry without the medicine .
the probability that i wouldn 't cry by taking the medication is 100 % .
please give me medicine .
psychiatry
welcome .
i will write a prescription for you .
but promise me , you will accept reality and overcome it .
that will be 50,000 won . ( approx . $ 50 )
it was declined .
you 've arrived ?
yeah . nothing really happened , right ?
there is something that happened .
the landowner said if we didn 't pay rent by the end of this month , she 'll kick us out . next . if we don 't pay the gas bill on time , they 're going to cut the gas .
i really hate to tell you this , but ... it 's been months since i 've last been paid .
i couldn 't pay my credit card bill , so i 'm getting the push call from the card company .
i hope you will pay me by this month .
where are you going ?
i might be late so go home first .
yes .
please leave well .
hello !
hi !
ajussi , send us two sacks of rice .
don 't be late !
yeah .
ahjumma !
ahjumma !
can i have another bottle of sesame oil ?
aigoo , you already used it all ?
in here , please .
thank you !
take care .
[ eun yi 's grilled mackerel ]
i 'm going .
the order is ready .
mister ! we 're watching that , but how come you changed the channel ?
oh , please ... you women ...
what did you say ?
oh , seriously !
i was watching it too .
this isn 't right .
change it to a drama .
ahjussi , it 's 3 : 1 , you 're the minority .
please just have this delicious grilled mackerel , and concede the channel to them .
oh , the moment is gone !
i wonder what happened .
the fact that he was their son must have been revealed .
how do you know that ?
look at his expression .
it 's the hospital and she is shocked from looking at the test results .
probably , the doctor would say , " as per the test , it 's 99 % matched . "
as per the test , it 's 99 % matched .
then , at this moment , the mom would cry out the name of the son .....
ji wan !
that 's right , the son 's name is ji wan , ji wan .
you 're awesome .
how ?
how come you figure even the dialogue ?
i know right .
you could become a writer .
you could really become a writer .
that 's right , she 's much better than the actual writer !
- that 's right !
- why are you serving the grilled mackerel here ?
geez . i think we must send her to the broadcasting station .
why do you have so much to say if you came to eat some grilled mackerel ?
have you read that article ?
i have . it was really epic .
move the camera upwards and bam !
and camera # 2 is coming in ... director hong , long time , no see .
have you been well ?
ah ... hello .
are you here to see representative oh ?
i heard your contract with " empire " is almost up .
you should work with me soon .
but promise me .
you must accept reality and overcome it .
that 's a joke !
i have something to film so ... uh ... one , two , camera !
representative oh jin wan
proposal for a joint venture ?
( a contract agreement between jaekuk entertainment and watanabe group written in japanese )
watanabe group ?
when is the appointment with writer jeong hong joo ?
i 'm sorry about the wait .
what are you doing that 's making you that busy ?
we were looking for some writers .
there are countless writers , but what have you done for the last 3 years , not making connection with them ? well then sunbaenim , what brings you here without notice ?
yeah .
do you have about $ 3,000 on you ?
are you having that much of a difficult time ?
huh ?
do you not have even $ 3,000 ?
no .
while i was coming here , i just hit another car slightly .
but the other person wanted to settle it in cash .
i was planning on giving him about $ 3,000 but i forgot my wallet at my company .
he must be waiting right now so just lend me the money since it 's not that big of an amount .
ah !
what should i do ?
i too , forgot my wallet .
why don 't you just call your insurance company ?
otherwise , you can get in trouble later .
of course .
there must be some investors from japan right ?
huh ?
i saw that a minute ago while i was waiting .
i 'm having such a hard time because of this .
why ?
are they strict ?
they say this korean-japanese is a pretty successful businessman in japan , but he says that he wants to invest about 10 billion won ( $ 10 million ) to a korean drama .
10 billion won ?
sunbaenim ...
this is 10 billion won project .
since we 're a big company , a proposal in such scale comes .
who would want to deal with a tiny company for this project ?
whatever .
if you are interested , you might as well try out for it .
the condition is simple .
the background of the drama should be japanese occupation era .
japanese occupation era ?
yes .
he 's saying that the drama should depict the fierce life story of a man , who 's betting his destiny in the swirling sad history of the japanese occupation era .
but how could we find a script like that all of a sudden ?
i 'm checking with the writer 's group and also searching famous writers too , but all they wrote were not really satisfactory , so ...
ah , aish . representative ?
oh !
are you okay ?
representative kim !
are you okay ?
japanese occupation era , in the wheels of sad history , ...
it 's fine .
here , take these .
put them away .
put these away .. ah , yes . ah , yes .
[ morning of kyeongseong ] this script , put that in the closet .
yes , sir .
oh , director oh .
yes , sir . the scripts in that closet , throw all of them away .
for how many years have they been in there ?
get rid of them , including the closet .
yes , i understand .
sunbaenim ?
sunbaenim !
we should eat dinner together , but i have an appointment .
no , take care of business .
sunbaenim !
sunbaenim ?
!
heehee !
go eun ...
what ?
nothing .
hey ... mom , just talk ... what is it ?
do you ... ?
are you setting me up again on a date ?
huh ?
whose son is it going to be this time ?
the veggie store ?
the grocery store ?
or the seafood store ?
do you want to write dramas ?
do you want to write dramas ... again ?
you had said that it was good that i quit when you were paying off my debt of ten million won . now that we are making a decent amount of money , if you want to go back to writing , you may do so .
i enjoy living my life earning money with you better .
and what do you mean we make a decent amount ?
we need to save up money to buy a house . by grilling one mackerel at a time , in a thousand years ?
i 'll make it so that you 'll be grilling 100 mackerels a day .
you 're the last person to leave .
yes , keep up the good work .
yes .
have a good evening !
i wonder if they turned off all the lights ...
lee go eun .
her name was lee go eun .
[ morning of kyeongseong ]
writer / lee go eun
alright , this is good enough .
after adjusting a few things , it will become quite a thing .
i hope you take a liking to this piece of work .
world production representative ...
anthony kim .
writer / lee go eun 010.298.5983
your grilled mackerel is ready .
please enjoy .
please enjoy the food .
yes .
cut !
we 'll do the customer 's reactions now .
do you have to do this ?
it 's taking up several tables and the lunch crowd will be here soon !
mom , do you know how many customers will come after doing this ?
i told you i will make it so that you 'll be grilling 100 mackerels a day .
we 're ready to start .
yes !
which one of you wants to be on camera ?
shall we do it from this side ?
or this side ?
what 's gotten into her ?
[ it is an international call . ]
hello .
hello ?
this is the watanabe secretary 's office . hello ? this is the watanabe secretary 's office .
can i speak to anthony kim ?
this is anthony kim of the world production company .
we can speak japanese if you 'd like .
yes .
our chairman read through the entire script that you sent .
he was deeply moved by it and wants to invest in it .
just ...
can you come to japan together with the writer ?
the chairman is in america right now on a business related trip .
you can come tomorrow to japan with the writer .
hello ?
mr. anthony kim ?
yes , yes .
will you be able to come tomorrow ?
of course .
yes , i understand .
we will provide your flight . see you then .
in that case , i will see you then .
[ morning of kyeongseong ]
what irks me the most is the fact that my life is ruined by a third-rate bottom feeders ' crap such as you .
what makes me mad the most is the fact that jerks like you wield all the power in the drama production field .
you ... will be doomed one day . by someone like you .
as we had feared , the number is no longer in service . i 've also contacted the writer 's guild , all her classmates from writing school , and other assistant writers that may know her , but ... it was of no avail .
how about writer jeong ?
after all , she worked under writer jeong for 5 years . she doesn 't know , either ?
no .
representative ...
how about hiring a private investigator ?
a private investigator ?
you want me to find someone based on just the name of lee go eun and her disconnected phone number .
in that kind of situation i charge five million .
five million won ? ( around $ 4,600 )
we have to find her in 5 hours .
if that 's the case , then 8 million won .
if you don 't like my price , you can go somewhere else .
why don 't you give it a thought .
representative , how are we going to get 8 million won out of nowhere ?
if you give them a discount , they 'll take it for granted .
while the price is steep , he 's not saying that it 's impossible to do .
when food was scarce during the enlightenment period , people started grilling mackerels instead of ribs .
although in the present generation we have a lot of food ...
grilled mackerel ?
it looks really delicious .
representative ...
mmm !
eun yi 's grilled mackerel it 's really delicious !
well , what should we do ?
have you made up your mind ?
never mind .
huh ?
i said never mind .
rep ...
rep-representative !
i 'll give you a discount .
how about 7 million ?
seven million ?
aren 't you coming ?
ah , yes .
alright , 5 million .
what a deal . 5 million !
too high ?
4.5 million !
4 million !
or just even one million won !
your mackerel is ready !
enjoy your meal !
enjoy !
veggie refills , please .
alright .
excuse me !
is my grilled mackerel ready yet ?
yes , just a minute .
ah , hello !
please wait for a bit .
that tv gig worked like a charm !
the real charm is in your grilled mackerels !
your mackerel is ready !
please enjoy !
one moment !
yes , this is eun yi 's grilled mackerel .
can i speak with writer lee go eun ?
huh ?
is writer lee go eun available ?
i 'm sorry , i can 't hear .
who ?
writer lee go eun , is she available ?
hello ?
yeah , that 's me .
this is the drama production company " world productions . "
we were looking for a script for our next drama , and we happened to read your " morning of kyeongseong . "
yes ...
just a minute .
everyone , be quiet for a minute !
yes , you were saying ?
do you happen to be bound by a contract or production company ?
no , thats not a problem .
that 's good .
our company would like to make your " morning of kyeongseong " into a drama . what do you think ?
my " morning of kyeongseong " ?
yes , if it 's ok with you , i would like to meet with you today .
today ?
where do i need to go to ?
no , i will come to you .
umm ... miss lee go eun , it 's been a while .
have you been well since the last time i saw you ?
get out right now .
miss lee go eun .
i said to get out .
writer lee ...
i told you to get lost , you jerk !
will you not let go ?
i know that i made a mistake back then .
" writer lee " ?
after kicking me out of the field of drama writing , you 've got some nerves to call me " writer lee . "
because of you , i 've been called a sell-out who backstabbed her mentor and other harsh names .
because of you , my future as a writer was hopelessly crushed and utterly destroyed .
three years have passed , and you just show up and want to produce my drama ?
i 'm sorry . i sincerely am .
that 's why i 've come here to apologize .
three years ago , you seemed to think that my work was a worthless piece of crap .
what happened ?
do you suddenly like it ?
because it 's sincere .
who are you trying to fool ?
just tell me the truth .
yes , your script is crappy and mediocre at best , but it has some potential .
i 'm after that potential .
i told you not to talk rubbish , just tell me the truth !
i got a rich geezer hooked on your script .
you ...
you ... are really low .
get lost .
before getting lost , i 'll just say one thing .
i don 't know if you 've heard , but i 'm completely broke .
all i have is an overdrawn bank account and that crappy old car over there . i 'm behind on my rent payment , too .
however ...
i can rise again .
the king of dramas anthony can rise again .
to conquer the world again , i ... need you , lee go eun .
i ...
don 't need you .
so get out .
didn 't you hear what my kid said ?
i guess making the daughter of me , park kang ja , miserable three years ago wasn 't enough for you .
if you don 't want to die by my hand get out right now .
i 'll say one more final word .
i told you to get out right now ...
hey ... that guy said he would say just one more thing and then go .
let 's hear what he 's got to say !
yes , let 's hear him out .
fine , i 'm a coldblooded , repulsive jerk . but what does that have to do with you ?
what does me being a jerk have to do with you giving up your dream instead of pursuing it ?
so you want to spend the rest of your life here serving mackerel ?
just be content with telling your child one day , " your mother also used to have a dream once . "
dreams aren 't there to be reminisced , but rather , to be fulfilled .
and the only chance to fulfill this dream will be gone after tonight .
okay .
it 's okay if you hate me .
but don 't do something you 'll be sorry for , for the rest of your life .
what are you looking at ?
just stuff your faces with mackerels !
good night .
good night . mr. kim , you had too many drinks tonight .
what ?
another bottle of soju , please .
ah , yes .
please visit again !
the food was good !
drive safely !
oh , hello !
this was my last ray of hope after everything else has failed .
will it all end this way ?
two more dishes of grilled mackerels , please .
two more grilled mackerels .
do you plan on living your entire life grilling mackerels like this ?
and then are you going to tell your children that you had a dream at one point of your life ?
dreams aren 't something to look back on when you grow older .
dreams are there to be pursued .
it 's fine if you hate me .
but just don 't do something you will regret for the rest of your life .
mom ...
i 'm sorry .
i want to go .
that 's fine .
you must pursue your dream .
don 't worry about mom .
go .
anyways , you ...
had no skill at grilling mackerels .
this is for the best .
mom ... silly girl , i just fired you !
fine , i can 't back down like this .
you 've made the right decision . i 'll tell you two things . first ,
i really hate people like you .
nasty , dirty , greedy , soulless sell-outs .
you should keep that in mind .
thank you .
i 'm going to kill you for real . as long as you don 't kill me painfully , please .
my mom also has a message for you .
if you make me cry one more time , she 's going to slit your throat .
this is quite a tough family .
fine . now , it 's my turn to talk .
you 've got to watch your language , young lady .
mind your tongue if you want to work with me .
i understand , representative .
what would you like me to do ?
pack your bags and get in this car .
and then ?
we 're going to the airport .
don 't forget your passport .
why the airport ?
why do you think ? to take a plane , of course !
the man who thought your script was great , wants to meet you in japan .
anthony kim-sama and lee go eun-sama , it is an honor to have both of you aboard
chairman watanabe 's personal airplane .
this plane is air-wk number 501 .
we plan to arrive on hukuoka airport at 2 : 15 p.m .
i hope this will be a comfortable trip for both of you .
do you think i 'll sign a contract without a contract fee ?
why don 't you have a contract fee ?
it 's written right there .
that i will give you the money after i receive the investment fee .
you know my situation well enough .
then why did you get on the plane ?
because i 'm a villager from busan who has never ridden a plane before .
why ?
what is that for ?
it 's your contract fee .
there 's nothing more i can do even if you glare at me .
that 's all i have .
if you can 't trust me , then don 't believe me , believe sejong ( king on currency ) .
let me take that .
where is your hotel ?
jae guk hotel please .
you will be picked up tomorrow morning at 10 .
yes .
where are you going ?
huh ?
do you know how much it costs to spend a night here ?
taxi !
what 's with him ?
!
how much is a one-night stay here ?
ten thousand yen !
can you give me a discount for two rooms ?
no way , no way !
what do we do ?
they only have one room .
huh ?
is it really true that there 's only one room left ? writer lee isn 't even kim tae hee or song hae gyo ( korean actresses ) , do you think i would be crazy to joke about this ?
turn off the lights .
it 's already 8 o 'clock .
wake up now .
what kind of writer sleeps so much ?
being a girl , you grind your teeth and snore .
good morning .
the president is waiting .
he 's prepared a yacht and a car .
what kind of a person is chairman watanabe that he wants to fully fund the drama production ?
i told you .
he 's a korean-japanese business man loaded with money .
so you 're saying he looked at my script and liked it ?
you wish .
you wouldn 't even be here if i hadn 't fudged the facts .
what do you mean ? all you 've got is 5 years of experience as an assistant writer , with no publications , not even a debut experience , not to mention the fact that you were excommunicated from the field and wasted 3 years away .
then ...
what did you tell him ?
i told him to meet you in person .
ne quid nimis ( nothing in excess ) .
too much fudging can backfire .
the only reason he 's investing on this project is his trust in me , so don 't make any mistakes and do well ! so don 't make any mistakes and do well !
fine .
he 's a man after all ,
the president has arrived .
this person is the writer ?
yes , she is writer lee go eun .
reading your work brought back long-forgotten memories of my homeland and my days of youth .
as he read your work , he wondered whether this inexperienced rookie writer would be worth his investment .
the whole time i was reading your script , i was so moved by it , that i just had to see the writer in person .
the whole time he was reading , he saw plot holes here and there , but because he trusts producer anthony he has decided to invest in our drama .
did you conceive the idea for the script yourself ?
he asked whether the story was your own idea .
answer him .
though i didn 't experience this painful era of our history myself , because she didn 't experience this painful era of our history herself ,
i wanted to write about the life of a man whose destiny was entwined around that tragic period .
she had a writer 's block , but it was fate that led her to a crucial mentor , which would be me , and i gave her some advice and that 's how she was able to finish writing her script .
ah , so anthony kim is the writer 's saviour .
then , i will trust you anthony kim and your writer .
i will sign a contract with you .
what did he say ? that based on his trust on the producer , anthony , he will sign a contract with us !
really ?
oh , thank you !
( in japanese ) thank you .
i have one condition though .
thi ... this year ?
within this year , together with my beloved wife akiko
i would like to watch " kyeongseong 's morning . "
your wife ...
she 's very beautiful !
the only requirement for my investment in this production is that it needs to come out within this year .
for this year , the drama broadcasting schedule has already been decided , so ... is that it needs to come out within this year . for this year , the drama broadcasting schedule has already been decided , so ...
do you have a particular reason for wanting it to come out this year ? i can 't tell you that .
can you promise me ?
mr. anthony ?
of course !
within this year , i will definitely show you the drama .
your word is not enough .
once i get our drama assigned within this year 's broadcast schedule , i will accept your investment .
how about that ?
alright .
let 's sign the contract immediately , then .
i 'll deposit a down payment of 1 % within today .
and i will provide the investment money in three installments as stated in the contract .
this way , please .
we 're really making my drama !
this isn 't a dream , is it ?
so giggly and happy over that ?
don 't do anything rash and just focus on perfecting your script .
just get it scheduled for broadcast this year , and i get 9.9 billion .
in total , 10 billion won !
i 'm finally making a comeback .
my empire is all starting again !
i 'll show you what i can do , mom .
i 'll definitely show you hat i can become a drama writer you need not be ashamed of . i said that i wouldn 't write dramas again , but this destiny-like opportunity ...
i can 't miss it !
the opportunity is already in my hand .
this is my destiny !
born to be the king of dramas , my destiny ! to the people who have misunderstood me until this day to the bastards that have looked down on me my earnest sincerity with a bloody , mighty rule ,
i 'll show them ! i 'll get my revenge !
( in japanese ) how are you ?
( in japanese ) i am fine .
aigoo .
who 's there ?
is someone there ?
( in japanese ) stop !
( in japanese ) please ... spare me ..
( in japanese ) i won 't do it again ... ever !
the person who breaks his promise dies .
just what in the world are you doing ?
it is human nature to break a promise .
but the person who breaks his promise to me definitely dies .
who 's there ?
thank you for watching king of dramas with us .
please follow our channel .
have to air it within this year .. !
there 's no question that the biggest productions get scheduled first .
people only know kang hyun min as a big star , but he 's in fact the biggest idiot there is . mr. kang hyun min , this is writer lee go eun .
get up and put your hands up if you don 't want to die .
did you fall for anthony 's deceptions again ?
why don 't you sign a contract with us ?
we 'll make the best offer ever made to a rookie .
do whatever it takes . get her !
episode 3 the return of the king but the person who breaks their promise to me definitely dies . who 's there ?
it 's me , akiko . it 's late , are you not going to sleep ... ? since you weren 't beside me , i couldn 't sleep .
let 's go home . please don 't make any noise . y-you speak korean ...
i 'm a korean drama fan . of course , i know some korean .
could you have possibly heard earlier ... ?
oh , your translation with lies ?
don 't worry .
i didn 't say a word to my husband .
were you that surprised ?
my husband doesn 't kill people often , though .
then ... chairman watanabe ...
he 's the best yakuza ( gangster ) in kyushu area .
watanabe finance with 40 years of history , he 's the boss of that yakuza .
my husband is a bit hard-edged and cold-blooded , but you don 't know how gentle and tender he is usually .
then ...
then the chairman of the watanabe group is ... of course , it 's a " group . "
you can 't even guess how many " team leaders " he has .
as long as you keep the promise that you would show us the drama within this year , you won 't die , so don 't worry .
and you asked earlier why the drama must be on tv within this year .
this ... is a secret .
in fact , my husband has the last stage of stomach cancer .
so you must definitely keep your promise !
okay , i know what you 're thinking , but ...
low-grade ...
what do i do ?
should i tell him that i can 't do it now ?
no , how hard it was to get this opportunity ! if i lose this chance , i might not have any chance to come back , not only even in three years but forever !
but life is more important !
i can 't be killed by a yakuza with last-stage stomach cancer !
wouldn 't it be better to tell him that i can 't do this , before it becomes too late ?
what ?
you 've come here and now you say you can 't do it ?
if someone goes back on their word with me they die . whether being killed by a yakuza 's boss , or dying later after failing to come back forever , anyway it 's all the same .
i have only one life , so who cares even if i use his money ?
the dice of destiny is already cast anyway .
representative !
the japanese watanabe group are on the line holding .
good afternoon , mr. tanaka .
i 'm empire productions representative oh jin wan .
how are you doing ? about that investment you told me about earlier , is it okay to send a script over now ?
yes ?
i 'm sorry .
we have decided to sign with the world production agency .
world production ?
anthony , that jerk !
it 's not like somebody is chasing us . please , let 's go together .
to put the drama on tv within this year , we have no time to lose , not a second .
within this year ?
yes , broadcasting the drama within this year is the condition of his investment .
there are just a few months left this year , how can we get a broadcasting time slot ?
i can do that , so you 'd better focus on your script now .
the real war is just started from now on .
representative , congratulations !
the deposit is wired to our account .
as if it 's so new to us ..
why aren 't you coming in ?
oh , it 's writer lee .
you 've seen him before , right ? he 's joo dong seok , the producer .
you 're having lunch .
well , i 'm done now . come over , take a seat .
by the way , where is my desk ?
oh , it 's over there .
here , miss writer .
okay .
then , where is the room that i 'll be sleeping in ?
it 's over there . show her inside .
huh ?
yes .
over here .
over here , miss writer .
i 'm done .
representative ?
shouldn 't you give me a minimum space so that i can work on my writing ?
what 's wrong ?
you 're not fat , but is that space too small ?
no , i mean , it 's not small , but it 's too lacking ...
it 's too lacking , i agree .
congratulations , sunbaenim .
i rushed to come here , so i couldn 't bring anything .
i heard you got the investment from watanabe group in japan .
that 's really just amazing !
we were lucky .
and your help was great too , representative oh .
what do you mean " lucky " ?
it was solely because of your competence .
oh , it 's writer lee .
it 's been awhile .
how have you been ?
i thought you two were having a bad connection , but i guess i was wrong .
like me , i thought writer lee also wished sunbae 's business to be ruined , but i was wrong about that too .
like me ?
yes .
three years ago , when the quick-service biker died .
how could all the details of that accident be on the media maliciously ?
why ?
why were all those articles pouring out without giving us any chance to block them ?
haven 't you doubted that ?
perhaps ...
you ?
yes .
that tip-off was done by me .
i mean ... why , you ?
why ?
you don 't know ? for 7 years , under you , i had done all kinds of work , but although i 'd cleaned up all crap you made , you took all the credit .
did you think i would live forever as the second man of " empire , " the subordinate of anthony ?
how could you ?
how could ... ?
how dare you ?
!
" how dare ... you ? "
i should be saying that to you .
the representative of " empire " now is ...
me .
such a person like you who uses cheap tricks to make just one drama . a loser like you who hit rock bottom can 't dare to confront me , the most powerful man in drama production industry , the king of the empire is me !
drop that useless hope , please .
with the investment contract which will become invalid if the show can 't be aired within this year , you can 't fight against me .
therefore , please just stay broken quietly . if you still want to get that tiny bit of respect as sunbae .
what are you watching so intently ?
what did i do ?
i 'm just cleaning .
miss writer lee .
let 's talk for a little bit .
i have something to show you .
this is the writer 's room prepared by empire production for you , writer lee go eun .
earlier , i was a bit too enraged , so i said rude things .
please understand .
why don 't you sign a contract with us , empire production ?
i signed a contract with world production 's anthony kim .
how much did you receive for that contract ?
well , the contract ...
it doesn 't matter .
i don 't think anthony gave you a proper payment for the contract because he came to me to borrow $ 3,000 a few days ago .
and even if you received some , we will pay the penalty for breach of the contract for you and give you the best condition you can get as a rookie writer . ten million won ( $ 10,000 ) per episode , the advance payment 100 million won for contract , and the rest of the payment 100 million won , so total 200 million won ( $ 200,000 ) .
are you being like this to me in order to get your revenge on him ?
if you thought of me as such a small ( petty ) person , then i 'm a bit disappointed .
oh , i heard that the investment from watanabe of japan was done solely because of your script , writer lee go eun .
by any chance , were you deceived by anthony , again ?
writer lee , even if you 're working with anthony , your script won 't be able to be aired .
as soon as you sign a contract with us ... well , was it " morning of kyeongseong " ?
that script will be proceeded right away and be aired , i guarantee you .
but ....
this is the key for this apartment .
while staying here , please take your time to consider this offer .
tomorrow afternoon , i will come to see you with the contract .
don 't forget .
that anthony will never be able to make this drama .
did writer lee not say where she was going ?
well , when i was back from the rest room , she was already gone .
what about her phone ?
no matter how many times i try , she doesn 't answer her phone . but you know , director . since we got the advance deposit , can 't we have some delicious food ?
our destiny depends on how to use that money .
what about the new recruits ?
they will come to work here by 3 pm .
are you not eating ?
you can eat the rest .
i heard that the investment from watanabe of japan was done solely because of your script , writer lee go eun .
by any chance , were you deceived by anthony , again ?
i will give you the best condition you can get as a rookie writer .
10 million won ( $ 10,000 ) per episode , the advance payment 100 million won for contract , and the rest of the payment 100 million won , so in total 200 million won ( $ 200,000 ) .
as soon as you sign a contract with us , that script will be proceeded right away and be aired , i guarantee you .
don 't forget . anthony will definitely not be able to make this drama .
mom ?
our writer lee go eun , are you writing the script well ?
by the way , mom , would it be important to keep the promise with a person i can 't trust ?
or would it be more important to choose the guaranteed future , not keeping that promise ?
is something going on ?
oh no . i 'm just saying .
this child ...
why are you thinking hard about such an easy thing ?
what 's so important about the promise with a person you can 't trust ? the future with the guaranteed success is more important , of course .
i guess so , right ?
of course !
auntie ! please give the food quickly !
i 'm busy right now so i will call you later okay ?
alright .
this person is unavailable right now .
the signal is on , but she 's not picking up the phone .
anyway , i sent a text message that we will have a meeting at 3pm today , so she will come by then .
director ?
we 're ready to have the meeting .
writer lee ?
miss writer lee go eun ?
thank you for giving me such a good opportunity , but i wish my drama would be made to give hope to everyone , not to step on someone .
i can 't take this opportunity by breaking a promise .
i 'm sorry .
my first script , " morning of kyeongseong " will be made by world production as promised .
we couldn 't even contact you . what in the world happened ?
i 'm late only by 3 minutes .
what ?
are you saying you ignored the calls on purpose ?
well , my friend told me to stay at her apartment if i don 't have any place to stay , so i went there ... you went there , and ... ? it looked great outside , but even the cell phone didn 't work there , and it was too luxurious for me to stay there .
the place where people live should be more humane , don 't you think so ?
as promised , i sent the contract payment to your account , so check it later .
hurry up and go in . everyone is waiting for you .
what do we do ?
what do we do ?
call writer jeong .
what ?
" elegant revenge 2 " will be aired this year .
for that , park shin yang ( a famous korean actor ) is going to take the main role next year ...
we can do the casting again .
director .
don 't you understand what i 'm saying ?
call a meeting immediately .
yes , sir .
this is han kang wook , who newly joined world production as a producer .
yes , nice to meet you . yes .
he 's good at the producer work but not good at family matters , so he divorced two years ago .
and here is team leader park seok hyun for finance .
i 'm still single , no need to worry about being divorced .
he 's single , no chance to get married , so don 't care about him .
and here is goo yi jae , the youngest staff for errands .
please take care of me !
i 'm goo yi jae of production team .
and this is ...
yes !
i 'm writer lee go eun of " morning of kyeongseong . "
please take care of me !
so now we 've done our introductions . everyone here who will share the destiny with our world production , as you can see , the level of our office is on the ground .
but ... remember this ...
the bank account with 670,000 won ( $ 670 ) and this small , humble office are the ground we will newly start , but with the advance deposit 100 million won , up there , we 'll head to the top . to do that , what you will do from now on is to win the broadcasting schedule so that this drama can be aired within this year .
aired within this year ?
airing it within this year is the condition for the investment .
the rest of the investment fund of 9.9 billion won , a total of 10 billion won ( $ 10 million ) worth drama , " morning of kyeongseong "
definitely needs to be aired within this year .
what will happen if it can 't be aired within this year ?
we die . currently for monday and tuesday of the k broadcasting station ( implying kbs ) , " days of passion " is being aired now , and after this , a historic drama with 50 episodes is planned . for wednesday and thursday , " heaven " with 20 episodes , and after this , the drama of director jeong seong chan is planned , so this year 's broadcasting schedule has already been completed .
what about m broadcasting ( implying mbc ) ? m broadcasting has already completed it 's broadcasting schedule for this year , and the place which has the time room for this year is only november for monday-tuesday of s broadcasting ( implying sbs ) .
" top secrets ... "
wasn 't it casting the actor choi tae joon ?
this early morning , tae joon had a big accident during the first shooting , so he needs to rest for 8 week .
if he needs 8 weeks , the shooting will be canceled soon .
yes . the media is talking about his " displaying the fighting spirit for the drama " in real time , but we should consider that his drama is actually going to be canceled .
then , are you saying they 're releasing the false information to the media ?
for the production company , they 've already lost hundreds of million won , so we can say they are making a frantic last-ditch effort . for the actor , since he can 't keep acting for the drama , he 's just trying to maintain his image , that 's all .
then the remained spot is only november for s broadcasting ...
fine .
make a list of actors in their 30 's who can play for " morning of kyeongseong " aired in november .
let 's go with november , s broadcasting .
representative !
even so , broadcasting it in november is ...
november in this year at s broadcasting .
this is the matter of life or death of our empire production .
no matter what it takes , we must get that time slot ! since the top actors in our company are not available anyway , make a list for top actors of other companies and call the meeting again .
the meeting is starting again .
tell them i 'll be there soon .
why did you come back again ?
huh ?
why did you come back again , not going to oh jin wan ?
how did you know ... ? you make a lot of fuss for even a small matter , but you were out of reach after going out to dump garbage , and came back one day later .
moreover , right after oh jin wan visited .
and then saying all the nonsense about a friend and the luxurious apartment or whatnot .
did you think i would fall for your lame acting ?
i guess the luxurious apartment part must be true . oh jin wan , not your friend , showed it to you , though .
why ?
why did you come back to me ?
is the reason really that important ?
it 's not that important , but i 'm very curious .
people like you wouldn 't understand , but there are principles and promises to some people .
and there are some people who live to keep those things even if they don 't have much .
i just kept them , that 's all .
how grateful i am .
it 's not for your sake .
of course it 's for mine .
so it wasn 't anything special .
and i 've told you before .
it 's not " you . " it 's " representative . "
s
k
k
m since you came from the movie industry , if i make an example in that side , if you made a movie , you need to release it through movie theaters .
yes .
but in our field , there are only three theaters .
so-called " 3 companies of ground-wave . "
if you can 't get the time slot through these three , the drama production itself is impossible , far from releasing part .
then , the competition to get the time slot must be really fierce .
that 's right .
but the golden time for a drama is 10pm !
the number of the drama production companies which are desperately trying to get that time slot is 248 , counting only korean companies . even if we count only three writers per each company , 248 by 3 .. 3 by 8 is 24 , and .... 248 by 3 .. 3 by 8 is 24 , and ....
it 's 744 : 1 .
so , if we think about it 's probability ....
don 't you have the calculator ?
0.134 % .
it 's just 0.1 % , no need to round it up .
you will see with your own eyes from now on how hard it is to get the time slot .
let 's start the casting .
yes , sir . yes , sir .
excluding the actors who belong to our empire production , these are the actors who can play for the drama which will be aired in november .
lee jeong shik and oh tae yeon , do you think they can be the top ( main role ) ?
exclude them .
remove jeong do jin too . he can be the top for a daily soap opera , but he doesn 't have the mask for a mini-series .
about cha seung hyun ....
isn 't he going to film a movie in december ?
cha seung hyun can 't work with us because of the movie .
who do you think would be okay for the main role , writer lee ?
while writing the script , haven 't you considered any among these guys ?
how about yoo ha yeon ?
i think he 's the most similar one to the main role 's image .
he 's not good because he 's a junkie .
i heard he quit last year .
the most unreliable words in the world is that a junkie says he quit the drug and the game-addict says he quit gambling .
even so , he 's one of the top three in korea . that 's true , but although the newspaper didn 't report it yet , the prosecutor 's office already finished it 's internal investigation , so there is a rumor they would blow it right before the presidential election .
tell him to blow the lunch box bomb by himself .
how about seo tae ha , director ?
but would he want to play the role for a " revenge " drama again ?
he has a severe depression issue , so as far as i know , he has been getting therapy for months .
what a moron ...
acting must be done by acting ...
next actor .
is depression a sin ?
well ... i didn 't mean that , but ...
then should we go with seo tae ha ?
ah , forget it .
who else is left ?
kim jin ho and kang hyun min .
kim jin woo has a lot of female fans .
he 's very hot now , not only in korea but also in other countries .
not only s broadcasting , but also all three stations can 't resist him .
let 's go with kim jin woo , representative .
not him .
now what ?
if i say no , then no .
well do you have a reason to say no ?
you don 't need to know .
why are you leaving kim jin woo out and going with kang hyun min ?
why on earth are you saying we need to go with kang hyun min ? " elegant revenge 2 , " november at s broadcasting , let 's go with kang hyun min for its male main .
prepare for that .
yes .
