can you fire that writer ?
i 'm asking if you can fire her for me .
what are you talking about ?
who knows .
i just wanted to know your thoughts .
before that let me ask something as well .
what are you going to do if lee go eun won 't change her script to the end ?
the things i want , i get all of them , as you know . of course ,
i couldn 't have only one person , though .
in the future it will be difficult as well .
i know .
that you don 't feel or want such a thing like love .
but i don 't care .
because i will make you love me .
after all , that was what i thought .
you were trying to shake the scripts as you want by a scheme with sung min ah .
there was no such intention at all .
but it 's clear that it was predetermined .
it was predetermined ?
sung min ah is an actress in the position who can choose not only her co-star but also the writer .
this is the inevitable process we should endure from the moment sung min ah was cast .
you promised me that you wouldn 't touch the script .
i definitely did .
but now you 're telling me to change it , even by using the actress , managers of the broadcasting station !
i have not told you to fix the script even once .
what did you say ?
fighting with a director , struggling with a producer , being interfered by the broadcasting station , and having a power game with actors consistently are a drama writer 's fate !
that 's why i was once fired by the pressure from the broadcasting station , and fought with you all the time , representative .
now i 'm fighting with the actress .
right now , you know i would obviously lose , so you 're telling me there is no need to fight .
no !
fight !
fight openly on the square against her !
you said you wanted to protect your script .
so fight . fight and win !
but in return , you 're fighting alone .
no one at all will help you .
so ... being a writer is an infinitely lonely job .
oh , right now ?
yes . understood .
representative .
it was cp lee sung gyu that just called .
he wants you to come to the station right now .
right now ?
he wants to talk with you about the production budget .
fight !
face the challenge and fight on !
you said you want to protect your script , right ?
then , fight . fight and win .
however , you 'll be fighting on your own .
not a single soul will help you .
writer lee .
joo pd .
i have a favor to ask of you .
that does not make sense .
it 's a period piece with kang hyun min and sung min ah as the leads .
you got 10 billion won from the sponsor , you have enough to cushion that ! that 10 billion is only an investment that needs to be returned to the producer once the drama is finished .
well , that .. that is true .
of course , i know that .
total production cost is 9.8 billion .
the 300 million per episode makes 6 billion .
projected international sales is 1.7 billion .
cable network sales is 10 billion .
that 's only 8.7 billion in total .
you want me to take a deficit of 1.1 billion won ?
no ... you want me to take a deficit of 1.1 billion won ? no ...
that 's not what i mean ...
no ...
that 's right !
product placements ! you can get money that way !
the historical setting is during japanese colonization . product placements are not viable !
that ...
i see .
i 'll talk with the director in person .
representative kim ...
why do you have to give us so much trouble ?
just go easy on us .
and besides , the director is not in his office at the moment .
hey , hey , hey , wait .
it 's my treat .
are you putting it on the corporate card as the director ?
hey , i don 't use the corporate card on my personal business .
installments for 3 months , please .
hey , what is wan soo doing ?
unemployed .
representative kim , what brings you here ?
i came to see you , director .
i 'm sorry .
i guess i need to talk with him .
alright , i will see you later .
i 'll call you
- okay .
what is it ? is it urgent ?
it 's about the production cost of " morning of kyeongseong . "
if it 's about the production cost , it 's no use for you to come here , representative kim .
it 's been already decided , as you know .
i don 't understand why you 're giving us an amount similar to small dramas like " children of paradise . "
do you think that drama will guarantee as much commercial advertisement profit as my drama ?
probably not .
but that is why that drama is important to us as well .
because nobody invests money in it .
nobody expects it to make any money .
if you know that it 's not going to make any money , why do it ?
because the world today desperately needs that drama . understood ?
are you saying that " morning of kyeonseong " is not a drama the world needs ?
no , " morning of kyeongseong " has its own value , too , that the world can benefit from .
plus , it 's got commercial potential as well .
it 's a great drama .
however , even dramas that nobody thinks will make money need to be produced , is what i think .
not for profits , but for its benefits to the society .
do you enjoy playing holier-than-thou like that ? sure , i suppose someone like you wouldn 't know the joy in it .
sure .
it seems that the massage place is the most likely place at that hour .
welcome .
may i see your member id ?
miss sung min ah is inside , right ?
i 'm here to see miss sung min ah .
a visitor ?
who ?
lee go eun , she said you know her .
tell her exactly what i say .
she said that unless you brought the changed script , she won 't see you , so you should leave .
yes .
ah , hey !
- i 'm sorry . - please , stop !
i 'm sorry .
- you can 't do this !
it 's an emergency .
listen , stop ... !
here you are .
i 'm so sorry .
get out of here , now !
just one moment .
you 're quite an interesting person .
i 'm more interesting once you get to know me better .
can you give us some privacy ?
now , entertain me .
i 'm not making dramas as a charity .
yes , i know very well that all you live for is money , representative kim . oh , and also , from now on , any business about the drama should be communicated through the cp in charge .
aigoo , fancy meeting you here !
director nam woon young !
though i 'm rather late , congratulations on your promotion to director .
i suppose you are late . thanks anyway .
i see , you hate me .
why would i do that ?
you 're at the top of the food chain in the drama world .
well then , excuse me ...
long time no see .
let me give you a warning .
leave this field while i 'm still being civil .
you 're the one whose time has come to retire , chairman .
i decide my own destiny .
i can also decide your destiny .
and what are you going to decide ?
just wait .
you 'll find out soon enough .
i look forward to it .
that 's why you can 't accept it .
yes .
you know the risks involved with that decision .
why insist ?
why are you risking your job for this ? the legendary british actor alec guinness once said , " there 's no such thing as a small part .
you 're trying to school me ?
didn 't you decide to take this part after reading the original script ? you found worth and potential in the details of the script , then , you shouldn 't actively seek to ruin the potential you saw in it .
it would be bad for you yourself , too .
also ... there will be no revision of scripts .
so you can drink soju too .
what 's the result of the fight ?
i heard from pd joo that you went to see sung min ah .
there will be no revisions on scripts .
and sung min ah will attend neither the script reading session nor the production report conference tomorrow .
yes , she will attend .
why do you think so ?
because sung min ah is a professional .
professionals have infinite sense of responsibility about their work .
a profession with sense of responsibility is doing this for her own interest only ?
both a professional and an amateur , they all make a mistake .
then , an amateur blames the world , but a professional takes time in reflecting on herself / himself .
take time ... ?
that 's right .
time which an amateur like you wouldn 't dare to think about .
both a professional and an amateur , they all make a mistake .
then , an amateur blames the world , but a professional takes time in reflecting on herself / himself .
time which an amateur like you wouldn 't dare to think about .
i mean , episode 1 , don 't you think it shows it 's theme excessively ?
finally , the first day of the official schedule for the drama " morning of kyeongseong " is starting .
at 2 pm , meeting all actors and reading the scripts . at 5 pm , moving to the auditorium and having the production report conference .
from now on , everyone , remember exactly what you have to do and proceed without fail .
yes , i understand !
goo hee jae , set up the room for reading scripts by 2 pm .
manager park , check the actors as per their schedule and make calls to confirm .
ah , yes , so you 're on your way here ?
pd joo , go to the auditorium directly , and check all the details for the last time .
the main poster on the background must be placed with extreme care .
yes , reporter park !
manager han , call all reporters of media companies and portal sites , and get their anticipated questions in advance .
yes .
now , i think you should go to the reading room .
okay .
ah , and watanabe group contacted me , and told me that chairman won 't be able to come .
i see .
when would he arrive ?
it will be at 2 : 35pm .
but .. do you have to pick him up personally , chairman ?
to the airport , i can go ...
the leader of watanabe group which assets are worth of 60 billion yen ( about us $ 730 million ) is coming , so i should show some courtesy to him at least .
what is with that face ?
i made a revision on the script .
these are the revised version of episode 1 and 2 of " morning of kyeongseong . "
revision ?
why did you change your mind ?
yesterday , i went back home and took time to read them again .
and ?
i could see that .
the excessiveness of theme .
so , do these scripts not have excessive theme any longer ?
i will show the completion of theme at the last episode .
you sound pretty confident .
if i weren 't confident , i wouldn 't have even started it .
how is it ?
this rookie is pretty good .
her writing skill is quite workable .
ah ... this is not good .
what is it ?
does it make sense ?
does she have any brain or not ?
hyun min , even so , shouldn 't you read the revised script before the reading session ? hyung , in a car , why would i read it , hurting my eyes ?
i can read it when i get there .
what do you think ?
can 't you know by just smelling it ?
that this is quite something ?
what are you doing ?
you should print out the new scripts !
yes . by the way , you 're not even on episode 1 , but you came quite early .
you could 've come 1 hour late .
what was that ?
aish , with my temper , i just should 've ...
go inside first . you were so confident , but i guess you were scared after all .
yes , i was scared .
i was scared if i would lose the composure of my life .
thank you all for coming here for " morning of kyeongseong . "
now , let 's start the reading session for episode 1 and episode 2 .
well , episode 1 of " morning of kyeongseong . "
scene 1 , panorama of kyeongseong city , lively kyeongseong city is shown .
on the road , a streetcar is passing , and many pedestrians between rickshaws .
then a cut-in , " november 7th , 1938 . "
one man who walks through a crowd , it 's the main role , kim woo jin . woo jin , he looks around for a moment , then approaches to a peddler whose face is covered with a towel .
what do you think the weather of kyeongseong would be tomorrow ? he looks around for a moment , then approaches to a peddler whose face is covered with a towel . what do you think the weather of kyeongseong would be tomorrow ?
a peddler , looking around for a moment , pulls out something from the inside pocket and gives it to woo jin . woo jin , getting close his face to that peddler .
there must be one more .
the peddler , opening the towels which covered the face , is the main female role , jin hye rin .
the other one will arrive tonight .
it will come out at midnight , through the check register machine .
woo jin , after taking a moment to think something , whispers .
woo jin , after taking a moment to think something , whispers . mr. kang hyun min , it 's your turn to read .
what 's wrong with you ?
what 's wrong with me ?
when i said i wouldn 't swim in the sea , you didn 't even sniff , but now without my permission , you were totally seduced by that fox and changed all scripts .
and now what ?
what 's wrong with me ?
i can 't do with these scripts . no ,
i won 't .
director , i 'm sorry .
with this feeling , i can 't do this , either .
so , it 's finally started .
pardon ?
what do you mean ?
everytime , whenever the drama starts , this happens , the war of nerves among animals .
pardon ?
pd joo , do you know where we are ?
this is a jungle made of asphalt .
what are you doing now ?
are you asking that because you don 't know ?
lower your voice .
don 't you see those reporters ?
smile . and relax your hardened face first .
if we 're not going to use the original scripts , i won 't be able to smile comfortably .
never .
until when will you whine all the time , without thinking straight ?
do you think i 'm now whining ?
this way , please .
ah , here is colder than fukuoka .
ah , yes .
the president of the best broadcasting station in korea came himself to welcome us .
since you 're coming , of course , i should come welcome you , chairman .
thank you .
this is the president of sbc .
and this is the son of watanabe , the heir of watanabe group , mr. watanabe kenji .
ah , i see . nice to meet you .
my name is jeong ji hyun .
nice to meet you . ( in korean )
i 'm watanabe kenji .
you 're speaking korean very well .
because i have business in korea too .
please keep making investments for our future korean dramas too .
let 's go inside .
yes , this way .
so what do you want me to do ?
are you saying i should go back in ?
the production announcement is soon .
should i go out there alone ?
kang hyun min is going to come .
i trust our rep will bring him back .
so , please , come back in .
writer lee go eun , i thought i warned you already .
don 't act up .
that 's not it
this is a favor .
i guess this drama is nothing to you as if it 's a children 's play . the penalty of three times of 2 billion won you received for this drama , if you 're not going to bring that 6 billion won back , go back to that room immediately .
i didn 't say i wouldn 't play for this drama .
i said i can 't do it with that revised script .
why don 't you go back when i say nicely ?
why ?
will you punch me otherwise ?
what are you doing ?
i can make it even worse ! using your perfectly fine mother to cover up your dui case , should i spill it all out that it 's all fake ? leave if you can , and i will tell people everything in that press conference .
are you saying you will kill both of us ?
whether dying now or dying slowly after public humilation , it 's all same to me .
don 't lie to me .
do you think i will fall for that bluff ?
i don 't care if you believe it or not . i have nothing to fear any longer . choose whether we die together , or live together .
soon , the production report conference for drama " morning of kyeongseong " will be started .
please turn off your cell phones for a moment .
have a good time , ma 'am .
thank you .
thanks to go eun , i 'm having a chance to see this kind of show .
by the way , why is she wearing black sunglasses indoors ?
with that , can you see properly ?
is this young wench deaf ?
i guess she 's totally fine .
kang hyun min stormed out during the reading session .
kang hyun min ?
kang hyun min ?
why ... ? did he run away ?
why ?
-yes .
why ?
he said he wouldn 't play for the revised script .
you punk ... !
you should 've held even his pants to stop him !
right now , the press conference is getting ready to begin .
what about sung min ah ?
she also said she would leave , but writer lee is holding on to her .
where is the mc .... ?
now , the production report conference for " morning of kyeongseong " will be started .
hello , everyone . i 'm your host , lee il hwan .
this is driving me crazy
okay , then let me introduce to you the two stars appearing in " morning of kyeongseong , " kang hyun min , sung min ah , and also director goo .
let 's bring them in .
hey , what are you doing ?
quickly go and find out what 's going on .
yes
what a comedy this is ... well , i guess they are having a moment to give us more dramatic effect . please wait for a moment .
well , the male lead actor , the female lead actress and director , would you please come out ?
i 'm going crazy ..... because of the script reading session which was planned before this conference , i 'm afraid the schedule has been a little bit delayed .
please wait a moment longer
they say that kang hyun min might not attend this conference because of some urgent issue .
i 'm sorry
i 'm afraid i will have to leave first .
yes
we 'd better get going , too .
kang hyun min 's not arrived yet ?
yes .
what do we do ?
what else is there to do ?
we need to go in there at least .
well , let 's go in .
going in without the protagonist ?
i 'm sorry , director . i came a bit late .
as much time as you took , you just make the food tasty ..
what about the representative ?
well , the situation in there didn 't seem good . but are you okay to be here , doing nothing ?
what brought you here ?
well , this isn 't a place i can 't come , you know .
oh , introduce yourself to him . this is kenji , the new ceo of watanabe group .
i 'm kenji , the son of watanabe hiroshi .
then ... the chairman is ...
and as the new chairman of watanabe group , i 'm telling you , that all investment to world production and anthony kim will be withdrawn as of now .
and 3.4 billion won previously given for the partial investment must be returned within this month .
episode 9 battle of red cliffs it seems the situation in there wasn 't good . but is it okay for you to be here , doing nothing ?
what brought you here ? well , this isn 't a place i can 't come , as you know . oh , introduce yourself to him .
this is kenji , the new ceo of watanabe group . i 'm kenji , the son of watanabe hiroshi . then ... the chairman is ...
his illness has gotten more serious , so he gave all management rights to me .
and as the new ceo of watanabe group , i 'm telling you ... that all investments to world production and anthony kim ... will be withdrawn as of now .
and the 3.4 billion won previously given for the partial investment ... must be returned within this month .
that is not possible .
if all the management rights were passed on to you , so would have the investment contracts as well .
how can you ask for the 3.4 billion back ?
i believe that the starting date for shooting is today on the contract .
i am making a reasonable request based on a breach of the contract .
however , chairman watanabe and i had a verbal agreement on it !
a business man makes promises by signing and proves with documents .
and also , anthony , let me tell you again ...
i am the chairman now .
i 'll excuse myself .
oh , yes .
didn 't i tell you before ?
that i determine your fate as well . no matter how much you wish for it ,
i 'm not going down this easily .
well , it 's not going to be easy .
i wish you good luck .
stay strong ...
sunbaenim .
you two , i don 't want any more tension like this after today .
such tension needs to be while you 're on camera , not out of it .
okay , let 's go in .
what going on ?
-just stay still .
really ?
they are here now .
yes , everyone , you waited long enough .
the " morning in kyeongseong " actors , kang hyun min and sung min ah .
this way .
well then , please give a big round of applause .. .. for the two lead actors and the director of ' morning in kyeongseong ' .
just now , what were they talking about ?
withdrawing the investment .. ?
is it true that we have to return all the investment money we received ?
what did they say ? say something .
representative ...
representative !
well then , we 'll begin the photo time for the two actors .
i request the actors to please use the center of the stage .
ah , really , they look so beautiful like a newlywed couple .
please use the center of the stage .
i did tell you but the main lead of this drama is me .
i don 't think you 're acting skill can handle that .
that 's funny .
that 's what i should be saying .
please look at the front .
what is the reason you are rescinding the finances ?
i don 't have any interest in your drama .
what i am interested in .. .. is whether you can pay me back the 3.4 billion .
i can .
in case you can 't ... are you willing to give up your hand as a promise ? i can promise . but before that ,
i need to confirm if mr. watanabe also thinks the same . then give it a try .
right now , father is in korea .
he is seriously ill .
he wanted to be in korea during his final days .
he has passed away .
the chairman ... has left you a letter before passing away .
mr. anthony , i 'm sorry .
it seems that i am finally paying for all the wrongs i have committed during my life .
i can sense that i 'll be in hell soon .
i wanted to watch your drama please forgive me who left without keeping his promise .
even if chairman wasn 't able to keep his promise
i will keep that promise .
even in hell , you will get to see ' morning in kyeongseong ' .
watanabe is dead .
that 's too bad . now that the investment is cancelled for sure , there is nothing anthony can do .
it 's not over yet .
yes ?
anthony will be running around , looking for money .
we have to stop him from getting any investments .
however , it is going to be difficult to gather such a big amount in so little time .
is it really worth it to go to that length because of anthony ?
anthony , that bastard , is someone who wants to tear me down . until i see his last breath fade away with my own eyes , this war is not over !
when he said he couldn 't come to the showcase , i had no idea it was because he was ill .
who would 've ever thought he 'd pass away like that .. anyway , it 's a big hit if we have to return the investment .
out of the 3.4 billion , we 've used most of it and have only 100 million left . in other words , before this month is over , we have to find 3.3 billion ?
can 't we find another investor in time ?
given this economy , it will be tough to find a willing investor .
besides , the amount is too huge .
even if we were to take a loan , we have nothing for collateral . even if we miraculously got that much money , we have to start shooting next week ....
then what are we going to do ?
are we going to end like this ?
how can we give up like that after coming all the way here .
be strong people . we never know , some kind of miracle might happen .
that 's right .
we need a miracle .
however , miracle is not something you wait for but something you make . from now on , without wasting one breath and without looking back , we 're going to run only looking ahead .
commence our meeting .
yes .
in reality , getting an investment in a short period of time is not easy .
but we can try to get a loan from banks putting our drama as a collateral .
how much money is left in our account ?
we have about 120 million won . ( us $ 120,000 )
good , with that money , make sure the first shooting is to be prepared without any trouble .
but to return the fund on time , it would be better not to use that money ...
no , the first shooting should be successful no matter what . rather than waiting for a slow death next to an oasis which is drying up , we should run to the end of the horizon with all our strength left .
does everyone understand ?
yes .
does everyone understand ?
yes .
good . team leader park , arrange meetings with our main banks .
and let 's contact other financial companies , one by one , too .
if we can get from three companies , the amount of each loan can be reduced , so the possibility ( to get the loan ) would be greater .
yes , i understand .
pd joo , manager han and hee jae , you guys divide the works and prepare the shooting perfectly .
yes . well then , from now on , run to the end of the horizon as fast as we can and escape from this desert !
yes .
do you want to be in a situation later with only sending a one page script ?
what are you doing not getting on with your writing ?
yes , representative .
i 've made a list of minor financial companies which we might be able to get some loans .
those are located within seoul or near seoul .
these three seem mostly workable .
call them and schedule an appointment .
joo pd , come here and look at this .
yes .
take a look at this .
it 's 14,293,000 won .
it 's way over the budget .
please put this back .
anthony has a lot of money .
what about this ?
camera 1 will be placed over there in a long shot .
camera 2 on the boat , and camera 3 will film kang hyun min jumping in the water in a full shot .
what do you think ?
yes , i think that would be good .
let 's go .
yes . your air-date is also fixed , and the lead actor and actress are top stars .
as long as you meet our conditions , i don 't think it would be difficult .
thank you very much .
then we will prepare all the necessary documents today and come back tomorrow .
if you could please wait for a while .
yes , head director .
yes ?
yes .
i understand .
well this ..
i don 't know how to tell you .
i 'm afraid that for this case , we won 't be able to give you the loan .
why are you saying this suddenly ?
i 'm really sorry .
this is because of our internal problem .
what is that internal problem ?
i 'm really sorry .
please don 't ask me about the reason why .
i 'm sorry , but it would be difficult .
this drama has sung min ah and kang hyun min as main actors .
its air date is also set now .
i 'm sorry .
it 's because our branch 's situation isn 't great now .
i 'm sorry , but it will be hard for us .
i 'm sorry , but it will be difficult for us .
please look over it one more time .
i am sorry .
i 'm sorry .
the higher-ups aren 't comfortable .
please understand our situation too .
well , i think i 'm always asking you a difficult favor every time , president ( of a bank ) .
right , why don 't we go for a rounding ( golf ) some time soon ?
ah , yes .
yes , yes .
i understand .
what is the reason that you suddenly say it won 't work ?
we got it ordered from the boss , so we can 't do anything about it .
the boss ?
the boss ? i 'm really sorry .
yes , pd joo .
representative , we have a problem .
the ship that we rented wasn 't arriving , so i checked it up .
they are saying that they can 't send us the ship if we don 't pay twice of what we made the contract .
what ?
twice ?
yes .
if that happens , it will be way over our fund that we planned .
what should we do ?
as you know , the money is a little ...
hey crazy dog !
we at least need a ship to put the computer graphic on or whatever .
are you doing this because you don 't want to spend the money ?
i 'm really sorry director .
part of our investment was cut off .
what ?
the investment ?
yes , however it will be resolved soon .
please trust me .
sung min ah . seong min ah .
seong min ah .
seong min ah . seong min ah .
seong min ah .
seong min ah .
seong min ah . seong min ah .
seong min ah .
again .
again .
again !
still seong min ah !
does this make 's sense
she said she would write it for me !
kang hyun min !
hey , what 's the score until now ?
37 to 38 .
seong min ah is leading by a lot .
oh my god !
jesus christ
seong min ah , that fox-like woman stole away all my scenes !
hyung , with this time , you better memorize an extra line of the new script ...
what did you say , you punk ?
do you think i could concentrate on the script now ?
kwang soo !
but still , why hasn 't the shooting started yet ?
i need to go and check .
why is the shooting taking so long to start ?
min ah , we have a problem .
the investment from japan is cut off .
what is going on ?
nothing serious .
they said there was a problem with the investor .
it seems we have some problems but they will be solved soon .
you know how anthony , despite being a dog , is good at handling these things well , don 't get too depressed , let 's call it a day .
as you had instructed , i made it so that the rented ship won 't come to them , but is it really necessary to go to this length when anthony 's money has already dried up ?
the broadcasting network needs to know that anthony has lost the investment .
that way , his last desperate efforts will get even more gruesome .
so , how are things going then ?
we 're currently looking into new investors so please don 't worry about it . the broadcasting license fee of 300 million per episode , we 'll pay the first episode 's in advance .
thank you , head director .
however , this is how far i can be of help .
you have to take care of the finances as soon as possible .
if anything goes wrong , the board of directors will have an uproar .
an uproar ?
they 'll want to sue you for failing to fill the broadcasting slot .
[ sung min ah ]
it 's me .
min ah .
yes .
i heard that you are having some difficulties
i 'll solve it .
don 't worry too much .
let 's talk later .
oppa .
do you remember what we talked about some time before ?
the thing we talked about during christmas at my place ?
let 's meet now .
prepare well for the shooting .
that 's how you can help me at the moment .
-oppa
- yes ?
later , after a long time .
once i become a famous top star , if i become someone who can help you , someone who 's strong and powerful ...
once you become one ?
when that time comes , will you accept my help ?
sure .
we 'll do that i guess .
really ?
but something like that won 't happen .
there 's a lot that you still don 't know about me .
like what type of person i am .
unnie .
yes ?
what ?
contact representative oh and tell him i have to see him .
min ah . you- right now .
pd joo , get the car ready .
we 're going to myeongdong .
what ?
no . you can 't , representative .
no , i know we 're desperate , but to take a private loan ...
move .
we can 't .
the annual interest rate is 200 % !
this is practically kicking the bucket yourself !
i 'm with him .
even if our drama were to succeed .. no , even before that , we 'll all die !
i agree with them , representative .
last time you did that , the company went bankrupt , you even lost your house !
the only hope we have left is chairman jang of myeongdong .
representative , i am done revising episodes 3 and 4 ...
what 's wrong with him ? all our loan applications were rejected , so now he 's going to get a private loan .
private loan ?
yes . then . after all you 've been through , you haven 't had enough and are still doing dramas ?
it 's a drama with a set broadcasting schedule and top stars as leading actors .
the documents included are a copy of the broadcasting slot certificate and an amotization schedule .
even still , you 've come to me because you didn 't get any investment .
how much ?
i need three or four big ones .
you need 3.4 billion ?
yes .
and the collateral ?
my hand that will lead this drama to success is the collateral .
please help .
anthony . your hand ... no , your body ,
bring me a real collateral .
chairman ... secretary choi , take him away !
chairman , i beg you !
i can even sell all my internal organs !
if i could give you all my scalp , i 'd gladly skin my head .
i could serve you as a slave the rest of my life , chairman !
please , i beg you .
just this once !
chairman ! after losing everything , coming to me again and begging like that , you 're the first . i don 't know how much this drama means to you , just give up !
chairman ...
you know what 's crueler than money ?
human ambition . if you don 't want to ruin your life , start by throwing that away .
chairman !
chairman , please help me !
chairman !
don 't kick me out like this ! please , chairman !
chairman !
please help me , chairman !
chairman , don 't kick me out !
chairman !
i beg you , chairman !
i don 't know how much this drama means to you , just give up !
you know what 's crueler than money ?
human ambition .
if you don 't want to ruin your life . start by throwing that away .
who hasn 't turned in the school support fee yet ?
come out !
you must turn them in by tomorrow !
got it ?
yes !
good !
if you can bring the fee by tomorrow , you may go back to your seat .
what 's with you ?
you aren 't going to bring it tomorrow ?
you 'll be hit until you answer me that you 'll bring it .
you got it ?
answer !
you won 't even if i do this ?
you think you 're so tough ?
answer me !
why are you so late ?
you 're hungry , right ?
come and eat .
i ate already .
why do we live so poor ?
why ?
did something happen at school ?
tell me , why are we so poor ?
!
something happened at school ?
i 'm not going to live like you mom .
i 'm going to earn money like crazy , and eat meat until my stomach bursts .
i 'll become a big shot that rides his own car !
i 'm going to make money even if i die !
even if i die !
i 'm impressed that you 've lasted for 3 years in this shabby office . that you 'd go to such lengths to make sure i 'm ruined ,
i had no idea , chairman . you didn 't even hesitate staining your own noble hands , why are you so intent on crushing me ?
that 's because i know the mettle of your being more than anybody else .
you resemble me a lot .
that 's why i specially took a liking to you . even so , you deserted me 3 years ago , and that wasn 't enough ? even so , you deserted me 3 years ago , and that wasn 't enough ?
what exactly is it that you want ?
leave ' morning in kyeongseong ' to me .
i 'll give you .5 billion in return .
i 'll also throw in the repayment of the 3.4 billion of watanabe investment .
how about it ?
i think that 's enough compensation for all the work you 've put into it so far .
why ?
why are you willing to go so far in order to get ' morning in kyeongseong ' ?
you think my goal is to produce just one petty little drama like that ?
i want something much bigger .
although i guess the one who sowed the seed of my big ambition doesn 't remember .
give it a good thought . whether to waste your life in jail with a huge debt crushing your shoulders , or to live an ordinary life with half a billion won .
are you going to the chairman of empire ?
go .
go take that money .
i 'll also drop ' morning in kyeongseong ' .
isn 't it alright as long as we can start working on the next project ?
we 've made it thus far , we can try again .
it should be alright if i write another great piece .
i 'm sorry .
who is it ?
i 'm here to meet the chairman .
that 's right .
have you come to a decision ?
yes .
'morning in kyeongseong ' ... .. i cannot leave it in your hands .
you should know the best that you only have one week to return the investment .
yes , i 'm well aware of that .
however , i 'd rather die than hand over that project to you .
you 're going for a heroic suicide ?
i 'll leave it up to the gods .
who knows ?
you , chairman , could be in cao cao 's shoes , running away from the sea of red flames at the red cliff . [ romance of three kingdoms reference ] still , in the end , it was cao cao who conquered the world .
do you think i will lose ?
what are you doing ?
don 't you know that for a writer , good health is money and time is money ?
what 's going to happen with the script if you get a cold ?
why are you outside ?
i decided to fight .
is it possible for us to win ?
what is it at this late hour ?
was it your doing , representative ?
what ?
the cancellation of the investment of " morning in kyeongseong . " min ah , i know about your feelings for anthony , but that anthony is totally ruined now .
just forget about him .
why do you hate him so much ?
i 'll tell you this at least .
this time , it was the chairman himself who did it .
what is this ?
we 've saved up some of our wages you 'd paid us so far .
we know it 's nowhere near the repayment amount , but ... writer lee made the most contribution , by the way .
the 20 million you gave me for the script and some of my personal savings .
it 's quite a bit . use it for " morning in kyeongseong . "
representative , be strong !
please be strong !
representative .
like that would make him strong !
the director 's fee you gave me .
you can pay the interest with the next drama .
director and everybody , listen to me carefully .
do you think i 'll be grateful with this ?
please , just make sure you can look after your own selves first .
did i hear that right ?
don 't worry about it .
a person cannot change that easily after all .
so you 're asking me to lend you money ? yes , to tell you the truth , of the 3.4 billion of the investment , more than half went into your payment , mr. kang hyun min .
so , if you could lend the company about half ..
half ?
then , 1 billion ?
so , are you asking me to pull out 1 billion ?
well , it doesn 't exactly have to be 1 billion , but whatever you could chip in ...
stop !
stop !
why should i ?
why should i part with my own blood money ? !
tell me !
our drama is at a crisis right now . we just need to overcome this moment of hardship , so everybody should join our efforts .
the representative is running around looking for funding by himself .
he may not show it , but he 's going through hell right now .
but then , why are you here to talk about this ?
yes ?
by any chance , do you like anthony ?
what ?
no , i mean , it 's anthony who 's suffering with no money .
why are you here looking for money .
isn 't that strange ?
my drama is about to be wrecked , is that so strange ?
besides , if we don 't secure enough funds , we may never get to see " morning in kyeongseong " ever !
honestly , " morning in kyeongseong " started with you , mr. kang hyun min .
i 'm aware that 1 billion is not an amount that one can easily lent .
however , you , mr. kang hyun min , are like a landmark of this drama .
as the protagonist of the drama , if you have any affection towards " morning in kyeongseong ... "
i beg you .
why is he like that ?
did he really start reading a book and fell asleep ?
it 's not like that .
he 's been like that for a while .
kwang soo .
what do you think ?
yes ?
about lending anthony 1 billion .
hyung , are you telling me you 've been thinking about that till now .
are you really thinking of lending the money ?
i 'm the landmarking of this work , so i should atleast think about these things .
landmarking ?
it 's landmark .
hyung , call anthony .
tell him that i 'll help him . that 1 billion won , i 'm depositing it soon .
you ?
1 billion ?
i 'm also going to try living a little differently .
looked like they didn 't have much time , so call him now .
that i 'm sending it soon .
i 'm really calling .
hurry .
yes , representative choi .
representative kim ?
listen , our hyun min has made a big decision for " morning in kyeongseong . "
hyun min made a big decision of what ?
since you were going through a lot of trouble because of the repayment of the investment ... so our hyun min is thinking about 1 billion ... since he 's in lots of trouble , let him just get buried in trouble !
i can 't do this , hyung , this money means so much to me !
no , no .
i can 't .
that 's what i thought .
you would never help anybody with 1 billion !
hey , darn that bastard !
hello representative kim ? yes , representative choi , tell hyun min , that he should make a big decision about getting ready to swim in the ocean .
the call wasn 't to lend money but to ask about the swimming in the sea scene ?
yes , it 's me .
i know you 're busy but come out for a while .
the same cafe where we used to go often .
i 'll wait until you get here .
who was it ?
what 's the matter ?
i 'm going to run an errand , prepare a list of potential investors outside of the capital .
yes .
see you later .
hyung , are you crazy ?
you told me to call him !
usually , you do things at the speed of a snail .
why were you so fast this time ?
you told me to hurry !
will you die if i tell you to die ?
what ?
that was 1 billion won of money !
are you doing whatever you want because it is not your money ?
huh ?
do you know it 's been 5 years ?
to be back here where you broke up with me so heartlessly .
that was 5 years ago .
i 'm sorry but i 'm a little busy .
can we just talk about business ?
what will happen if i abandon you now ?
i 'm asking what will happen if i leave this project .
did you call me to tell me you 're done ?
no . so that i won 't leave this project , accept this money .
all i 've got that is available right now is just half a billion .
for interest , i would like to receive your heart .
i guess it would still be difficult .
your dream , i hope you can make it come true . turn around world production into a world class production company like 20th century fox .
world class 20th century fox ... ?
that 's right .
your dream when you worked at empire 5 years ago .
here , this is the place .
we 're going to build the largest filming studio in asia .
[ 5 years ago ]
all the fans of korean dramas from japan , china , other asian countries , plus more fans from over 60 different countries will be drawn by it .
once we can build a theme park so that it can serve as a tourist attraction in addition to a filming studio , the profits we 're currently making from dramas won 't even compare .
the catch is , we need a masterpiece that can do it .
could you take charge and do it ?
if you 'd put me in charge , i 'm going to turn this empire into the 20th century fox of dramas !
i want something much bigger .
although i guess the one who sowed the seed of my big ambition doesn 't remember .
so it was that .
thank you .
i 'll use the money well .
you 're a real big help .
thank you . once part of the studio is finished , let 's use it for filming " morning in kyeongseong . "
then , the land that was worth 5k won per 35 sq ft will increase its value by 5000 % in no time !
purchase this land no matter the cost !
yes .
so , you came here because you 're interested in my land ?
i 'm interested in the whole lot of 143k sq ft that you have .
for over 10 years , nobody has ever shown interest in it .
you must have quite a fortune for someone so young .
but i won 't be buying it .
what does that mean ?
in a few days , somebody else will come , wanting to buy your land .
he will want to speed up the deal , offering a slightly higher price than the market .
however , you should never agree to a contract .
get lost .
who do you think you 're trying to fool ?
i 've seen tons of scammers like you in my life !
i 'm sure you have seen many scammers like me .
however , you never know .
so what ? if you would believe me , you can make billions without even lifting a finger from where you are sitting .
get lost !
i 'll wait for your call .
we can 't afford to simply wait anymore .
we need to switch to a different production company as soon as possible .
thinks very carefully .
if we don 't do well , we will be removed from our places .
i decided to fight .
is it possible for us to win ?
yes ?
it 's me .
hello .
like you said , somebody came to see me .
he offered more than the market price , wanting to buy the whole 143k sq ft .
so what did you do ?
for now , i sent them back .
you did well .
so now , tell me what you want .
what i want is half of the profit you will make .
invest that money in me .
that is my condition .
( investment ? )
will you believe me , and go along with my plan ? i 've even offered to double the market price , yet the land owner is being stubborn .
he 's stubborn ?
yes .
he says he has no thought of selling the land .
this won 't do .
i 'll have to meet him in person .
seemed like he is greatly attached to the land his father passed on to him .
it was quite a challenge to even get him to come here , with his age and all .
land passed onto him by his father , huh ?
yes .
that seems to be why he doesn 't want to sell at all .
the old live in the past and are buried in the past .
even so , the old have a future , too .
the future of the old ... ?
it 's their children .
the future of the old is the seeds they have sown , their children .
like that , even as the old die away , they live the future through their seeds .
i don 't understand what you 're trying to say .
there 's nothing to think so hard about .
in short , the answer is money .
the inheritance of the past that can guarantee a bright future for the children .
nice to meet you .
please take a seat .
i don 't think that 's needed .
just go ahead and talk .
what is the reason that you wanted to see me ?
then , i am sure that he will get to the point right away .
i will pay the triple .
don 't accept that either . the fact that i have absolutely no thought of selling my land , i thought you were well aware of that .
well , then .
five times ...
i 'll give you five times as much .
please take a seat .
we prepared the contract .
with the condition that we will pay all the amount until noon by tomorrow .
yes ?
i just came back home after completing the contract .
everything happened as you predicted .
i will be receiving the money at the noon tomorrow .
yes .
i will meet you with the investment contract tomorrow .
kyeongsung 'smorning :
investmentcontract
what is it ?
president kenji wants to see you .
i understand .
please let him know that i will see him within today .
president ordered us to bring you .
i am on my way to get the money to return to president .
i 'm sorry but can you move aside .
say that in front of the chairman .
we only carry out his orders .
i understand .
hey , get him !
get him !
chase him !
get him !
that way !
can 't you think about it one more time ?
not just one but i thought about this 10 times .
put yourself in my shoe . if you had 10 billion , put yourself in my shoe .
if you had 10 billion , could you give it away easily ?
i 'm not asking you to give it but lend it .
i 've also had a really hard time getting till here .
honestly , even if i give away 10 billions ( $ 1 million ) , it will not be resolved .
it 's just like pumping water into a broken crock .
how do you know if the crock is broken or not ?
then call anthony right now and confirm it .
if anthony could find a single penny , i 'll change my mind then .
hello ?
representative ?
representative ?
hello ?
representative ?
lee go eun , listen carefully to what i say from now on .
if you walk into an alley back of our company building , there will be an iron gate at the dead end .
what is that about ?
i don 't have time to explain in detail .
behind that gate , there is my bag .
a bag with the contract , which we need in order to get the investment .
if you can 't contact me afterwards , that means something happened to me .
then you will have to find the investor with that bag .
you understand what i 'm saying right ?
yes .
but what 's wrong ?
shouldn 't we contact the police ?
no , it will be too late by then .
just do what i tell you .
before noon today , you must go and see the investor . then he will take care of the rest .
hello ?
hello !
representative .
rep ...
what is it ?
what happened ?
come with me right now .
hurry .
huh ?
hurry .
contractofbuyingand sellingland . about the land , i have sent the money .
you 've worked hard .
but do you think anthony will easily give up on the piece easily ?
it has nothing to do with anthony 's will now . once tonight is over ,
'morning in kyeongseong ' ... .. is ours .
have you come back to your senses ?
what are you thinking of doing capturing me ?
if you let me go right now , i can bring you back the money right away .
how do i believe in those words ?
do you have an official document that you could prove it ?
if you don 't believe in me , it 's okay if you come together with me .
rather than that , easily ... getting the money back ...
i believe there is a certain way to do it .
" morning of kyeongsang ... "
leave it to the empire .
at the end , is it this ? with the same purpose as empire , are you going to threaten me so that you can give my work away to empire ?
all i need is getting my money .
that 's why please make your decision .
it 's whether by giving them " kyeongsung 's morning , " paying me back , or ... give me your hand as you promised .
kingofdramas preview episode 10 whereintheworldisthatgateandthebag ?
!
we don 't have no time .
no !
no !
one more time hyun min .
one more time for the last time , okay ?
cut !
you can 't be shaking like that .
cut !
whatisthatpoopydog ?
you were really cool today .
was i really that cool ?
like brad pitt ?
representative !
representative !
look here , miss lee go eun .
it 'sdefinitelywrongtoplagiarizeandstealsomeone else 'swork .
whatdoyoumeanbystealing ?
iamnotthatkind ofwriterwhowouldplagiarizeinorderto succeed .
iwillneverallowyour dramatobeaired .
representativekim , yourstrongwill this time ... isitbecauseyou trustwriterleego eun ?
ithoughtiknewalot about you , but ... everyonechanges .
isthatchangemadebecauseofwriter leegoeun ?
areyoutellingmetoreviseallofthisrightnow ?
ifyoudon 'twanttobe known asanwriterwhoplagiarize .
episode 10 fatedlovers stop ! stop right there !
what is this about ? i don 't have time to explain in detail . just do what i tell you .
before noon today , you must go and see the investor . then they 'll take care of the rest . hello ?
hello ?
representative !
" morning in kyeongseong ... "
leave it to empire .
at the end , is it this ? with the same purpose as empire , are you going to threaten me so that you can give my work away to empire ?
all i need is getting my money .
that 's why please make your decision . it 's whether by giving them " morning in kyeongseong , " paying me back , or giving me your hand as you promised .
the promised deadline is tonight at midnight .
as long as you get the money by then , isn 't it good ?
midnight ?
someone will come bring me the money by 12 ?
if only you decide to wait until then .
well , since a promise is a promise . i guess i 'll wait .
until 12 , you have around 3 hours and 10 minutes . before that , someone needs to do it for sure .
so where is this gate and this bag ?
is it even true that if we find the bag , the money can be returned ?
just shush and focus on looking !
but i 'm looking for it though .
it 's just that i don 't see it !
gate , gate ... excuse me , aren 't you hyun min oppa ?
you think i 'm not ?
nice to meet you !
- how old are you ?
- in 12th grade !
you should be studying then !
aren 't you cold ?
guys , is there a gated dead end nearby ? there is one if you enter this way .
where ?
where ?
over here hyun min oppa .
oh , here ?
thanks .
what 's that ?
okay .
didn 't you say we were fine just finding the bag ?
hurry !
we don 't have any time .
the representative said that we have to get this taken care of before midnight no matter what .
anthony ...
finally your end is here .
you worked hard .
is this the right place ?
who is it ?
i 'm sorry for intruding this late .
i 'm sorry for intruding this late . this is mr. choi pil seong 's house right ?
yes it is , but he 's not here at the moment .
where did he go ?
he went to meet his friends .
he said he would be drinking . he might be a little late .
where is that place ?
why ?
it 's an emergency .
we need to see him as soon as possible .
do you have to go this far ?
it was your late father 's wish to have this drama made .
father 's already in the past .
what i 'm interested in is the present and the future .
it 's better you leave this house too .
i dont need any of that past .
what is the matter ?
i 'm here to meet mr. choi pil seong .
are you one of his party ?
no , it 's not that .
it 's really urgent . i need to see him as soon as possible .
wait a second .
i 'm saying i don 't have any time !
writer lee .
hello i 'm kang hyun min .
omo !
mr. kang hyun min .
this is really urgent .
we can meet mr. choi pil seong , right ?
i 'm sorry to say but your time 's up .
hold on a second . please wait a little more .
let 's start .
life is so full of surprises !
who 'd have thought that i 'd hit such a jackpot after so many years of drought ?
that 's what i 'm saying .
how much did you sell that land for ?
shush ! everybody says that you now have the money saved even for your great-grandchildren .
i get it . i get it .
since it 's my treat today , drink as much as you want .
who 's elder choi phil seong ?
it 's me .
what 's the matter ?
i 'm writer lee go eun sent by anthony .
stop .
hold on a second .
stop !
no !
no !
hold on a second .
i 'm ' morning in kyeongseong 's ' writer lee go eun .
what about it ?
i 've just returned the investment fund of 3.4 billion won to you .
returned the investment fund ?
mr. anthony , you 're one lucky person .
since you kept your promise , you 're free now .
yes , mr. kenji .
i was in the middle of waiting for your call .
yes ?
what is that about ?
let 's say that the promise between you and me was never made .
what are you trying to say ?
as promised , anthony repayed the investment money .
that 's not possible .
where are you at the moment mr. kenji .
i 'll be there .
you don 't need to come here .
anthony .
yes it 's me , anthony .
what kind of trick did you use ?
you shouldn 't speak like that to someone you helped .
what ?
!
i was able to resolve this thanks to you who purchased choi pil seong 's useless land for 5 times more money than it 's worth .
thank you very much .
i 'll make sure the money is used without waste .
anthony !
as you wanted , you became cao cao .
unfortunately , you fell off from the red cliff to the sea of fire , though . whatever it is , congratulations .
anthony !
like this , our problem is over .
we won 't need to see each other again .
anthony !
how dare you take my money ! and mock me ?
shit !
thank you very much for keeping your promise .
what have i done here ?
bankers had to do all the work at this late hour .
from now on our drama- what was it again ?
'morning in kyeongseong ' .
oh right , ' morning in kyeongseong . ' i 'm leaving it to you .
don 't worry about it since korea 's best top stars are in it .
that 's right !
i 'll also be expecting from the top star .
yes , of course .
how was i ?
wasn 't i quite useful ?
you 're very useful for your skill to torture me by making me wait .
yes ?
you 've tortured me until the very end , but now are you saying you were useful ?
ah , the old saying is never wrong .
" you saved a drowning person , but then that person demands you to bring his bundle too . "
if you 're going to save a drowning person , of course , you should save his bundle too !
i guess you 're fine since you 're all pompous like before .
see you tomorrow .
i think i should also say my last farewell .
ms. akiko , what are you going to do from now on ?
i 'll return back to japan and live like a new person . even though the chairman has left , please make a really good drama .
i will also watch it .
why did you hang up without talking about me ?
well , while i was talking to him ... the car taken was mine , the one driving is me and the bag was found because of me .
how big my contribution was !
you can 't just ignore it !
oh come on , i 'll tell him about it later .
you definitely have to put in the word how big my help was .
if i say it to him myself , it doesn 't look good .
so writer lee , you should make sure to mention it to him , got it ?
yes .
we 're almost there .
please turn right here .
turn right .
you 've tortured me until the very end , but now are you saying you were useful ?
if you 're going to save a drowning person , of course you should save his bundle too !
what were you thinking about that you are giggling like that ?
so , you came back alive without being hurt .
thanks to someone .
thanks to someone who was so slow , i was shit-scared , indeed .
you must have been really scared . ( in informal speach )
don 't talk to me without honorifics .
i was talking to myself right now .
do i have to use polite form even when i 'm talking to myself ?
but ... why did you come ?
thank you .
i came here to say that .
representative
if you 're that grateful , do you want to get some beer ?
i don 't like that .
ready ?
action !
how is it ?
how do you feel after watching the filming of the drama you invested in ? the cruise scene you guys filmed in the morning was spectacular too , but the passion of that handsome actor . wow !
this is awesome !
wow !
cut !
towel !
director !
let 's go one more time hyun min .
this is already the 4th time .
can 't you separately film me walking out of the water ?
this scene 's key point is the main role kim woo jin who has went through all difficulties and survived from the rough sea !
if we use cuts , it won 't have the same effect
let 's go for more realistic in one shot .
one more for the last time okay ?
that 's right .
you can do it since you 're the best actor .
alright !
let 's go one more time .
from the point kim woo jin swims !
cut !
you can 't be shaking like that !
again !
cut !
what 's with that dog !
you son of a b * tch !
hey , aren 't you going to control this mutt ?
because of the dog-
cut !
again !
director .
cut !
okay !
it 's a wrap !
hyun min !
you were awesome !
let 's all give a big round of applause for kang hyun min .
youweregreat !
goodwork !
are you alright hyung ?
to the car , to the car , hurry .
put on the heater .
heater !
heater !
just watching this is making me cold .
he should experience more hardships .
even with that , he won 't be able to become a real actor , though .
i guess so ...
representative !
the chairman is coming this way .
what ?
the chairman ?
yes .
he 's on his way with a team of empire 's lawyers .
legal team ... ?
the chairman is here .
you 're here . from now on , while anthony had been working as the c.e.o. of empire production for 7 years , the lobbying fund , dereliction of duty or embazzlement he committed , no matter what it is , find anything so that we can prepare to crush him !
yes ? find any documents about anthony , even if it 's a penny or a single receipt , and hand them over to our legal team ! but , considering anthony 's personality ,
there isn 't ?
if there isnt , then isn 't it your job to make one ?
he 's the bastard who made me throw away my money , 8 billion won in the air .
listen well everybody . if you want to keep eating and living with my money , find it no matter what !
no matter what !
kwang soo .
did you really turn up the heater to the highest ?
yes , hyung .
are you okay ?
do i look okay ?
hurry up and shut the door . the cold wind is blowing in .
this is warm coffee .
this will make you feel a little warmer .
that 's why i told you to cut out this scene from the script .
but after coming here and seeing the shoot , i think keeping it was the right decision . i 'm in this state now , but how can you say that ?
you looked so awesome today , awesome enough to make all the staff out there fall for you .
was i that cool ?
of course , you were the best !
like brad pitt ?
yes . like brad pitt .
inevitable , huh ?
like brad pitt ?
it 's cold .
it 's been a long time ... since the two of us came to the beach like this .
true .
but ... why did you want to see me ?
to return this .
i 'm thankful but everything is solved .
just keep it .
you know it well , don 't you ?
that we can never know what might happen anywhere , any how .
something like that won 't happen but if it does , i 'll take it . so keep it .
how does it feel having your 3-year old work experiencing its first shoot ?
i don 't feel anything .
just feel like going back to my regular routine ?
why ?
other people may not notice , but you can 't fool my eyes .
representative , you are extremely excited with anticipation right now .
me ?
representative , you might be the person with the smallest understanding of oneself in the world .
because it has become your habit to hide your feelings and forget about yourself .
you 're talking as if you know a lot about me .
is there anything more i need to know ? i 'm sorry but erase all the memories you 've had with me .
since i 've already erased mine a long time ago .
i 'm telling you again as the director of the drama department of sbc . all actions you 're making now , please stop them immediately .
so , does that mean that you 're supporting anthony more , not me ?
no .
it 's because " morning of kyeongseong " is also my drama .
yes ?
director , the filming crew finished today 's shooting and they are about to leave for seoul now .
by the way , i was wondering if you are going to attend tonight 's team dinner .
of course , i should go to that .
yes . i understand .
- what are you doing ?
- oh my god , oh my god ! you scared me to death !
being scared is your concern , but i asked what you were doing . when i 'm feeling really good or when i 'm feeling down , i 'm usually doing this by myself .
if you do this , it makes you feel much fresher .
by closing your eyes like this and raising your arms up like wings and start imagining .
i 'm free and flying in the sky . underneath me
i see my work place and i also see my mother 's mackerel restaurant .
just like this after taking a long tour you come down and open your eyes .
it 's the weirdest stretch i 've ever seen in my life .
stop doing useless things and hurry up to leave .
since everyone is waiting because of you .
everyone , attention , please !
today , the head director of the sbc drama department will say something .
hello everyone . the director should have done it .
" morning of kyeongseong " finally started its first step . of course , there were many complications , but the director , actors and all staffs endured them all together , so i believe this start was possible . well , a good result is too obvious , but during that long journey for the next 4 months ,
i wish no one gets sick and everything goes well . should we make a toast ?
everyone , raise your glass , please .
if i say , " morning of kyeongseong ... "
what do you say mr. hyun min ?
let 's go with daebak .
daebak is good .
alright then , ' morning in kyeongseong ' is daebak .
'morning in kyeongseong ' !
daebak !
here , here .
definitely , korean beef is different .
these days , korean farms are having a lot of difficulties , so we should eat korean beef a lot .
what 's up with you , mr. kang hyun min , treating all the staff with korean beef ?
well , that costs nothing .
you 're really a lot different .
and , i 'm the pr ambassador of korean beef , so i know well about this kind of thing .
this place 's meat is the best !
beef will be served as much as you want , so order as much as you want !
kang hyun min seems to be a better person than what i thought before .
he even knows how to buy for the staff . this isn 't paid for with his own money . it 's a sponsorship .
what ?
even meat can be sponsored ?
wasn 't he treating us because he is the pr ambassador of korean beef ?
that 's why he gets that sponsorship .
alright everyone .
our actor , kang hyun min , is treating you huge with this clothing for staff !
well , everyone , take one !
kang hyun min !
kang hyun min !
min ah , you should have one too .
i prepared one for you !
by any chance , these are also ... ?
sponsored . after all , he 's the greatest stingy actor who never spends his own money , even a penny .
wow ! how is it ?
is your illusion about him now breaking ?
yes , you can speak now .
who did you say you were ?
you 're pretty shameless .
looking at you having so much fun after your theft .
i don 't know what you mean , but i think you should first say who you are .
i 'm jo young eun , the writer of novel " lovers of destiny . "
so what ?
your drama copied my novel .
i don 't think you don 't know about that .
i don 't know about that , but i know one thing very well .
every time when i make a drama , i get a phone call from people like you .
and whenever that happens , i say like this .
then go ahead .
stop your funny trick and get lost .
unless you want to lose your money for lawyer 's fee while trying to get a few pennies by blackmailing .
representative . what are you doing here ?
let 's go in , everyone is waiting .
alright .
hurry .
alright , i 'm going .
well then everyone , was the meat delicious ?
yes !
please go in .
representative !
representative ! representative !
representative !
everyone !
now is the moment everyone has been waiting for .
we 'll now listen to a song from world production 's representative .
i can 't do it so ask someone else .
but still , atleast one song .
that 's right representative . atleast one song .
representative !
representative ! representative !
representative !
representative !
representative !
whose theme is it ? [ a famous korean classic song " keumkang mountain we 've missed " ]
a clear and pretty mountain !
12,000 mountaintops we 've missed so much .
although they don 't say a word .
finally ...
i 'll stop till here .
what was that ?
is he upset because we laughed ?
i will change the mood .
new writer lee go eun will be singing .
pd joo ?
must we use chopsticks well to eat food ?
[ " dance with dj d.o.c " by dj d.o.c. ]
even if we don 't use chopsticks well , we can eat food well !
but when i eat food , people around me always say , " do you have any problem with this table ? "
that was suprising .
what was ?
the representative that i know wouldn 't be singing in front of people .
i guess i was wrong .
i thought i knew a lot about you .
it seems you 've changed .
everyone changes .
is that change because of lee go eun ?
i 'm sorry but you got it completely wrong .
i 'm not someone who changes because of anyone .
even for my change , i choose to change myself .
ow , my head .
miss lee go eun .
yes ?
who is it ?
ms. lee go eun , here is the registered mail .
you 're miss lee go eun , right ?
yes .
sign over here .
yes .
thank you .
ow , my head .
what is it ?
regarding to banning airing the drama " morning of kyeongseong " for plagiarizing the novel " lovers of destiny " ?
what is this ?
yes .
this is writer jo young eun .
i 'm sorry but i think i told you that i have no interest in your mere novel .
then , from now on , i think you should develop some interest in my novel .
because i 've also sent the certification of contents to writer lee go eun .
and you keep saying that i 'm blackmailing you with a silly reason ... no , let me tell you first why that is a silly blackmail .
what judges and prosecutors hate the most is this kind of plagiarism case .
all you 've got to do is just shamelessly throw your book at them for review , hoping that that will boost the sale of your book and they are stuck with reading the whole pathetic writing , and even if they do finish reading it , 99.9 % of the time it ends up being a waste of time .
i don 't think you understand what i 'm saying .
i don 't know how you got your hands on the script of " morning in kyeongseong " when it hasn 't even aired yet , but we don 't know about your book nor do we need to know about it .
what are you doing ?
this is my problem .
this is ' morning of kyeongseong 's ' writer lee go eun .
so you are lee go eun ?
let 's meet .
you don 't have to meet .
yes .
yes , i 'll see you there then .
she 's just trying to stir up controversy to sell more copies of her book .
we 'll only find that out after meeting right ?
i 'll be the one meeting her and taking care of this !
stop wasting time and just focus on writing your script .
no , this is a problem of me and my pride as a writer .
i 'll solve it myself .
you 're younger than i had thought ... and so rash .
i don 't think i deserve to hear such words .
look here , ms. lee go eun .
regardless of how much you want to get fame and success , you shouldn 't steal someone else 's work and present it as if it is yours .
can you still call yourself a writer ? stealing ? i don 't know why you would accuse me like this , but
i haven 't stolen anything . my book ' fated lovers ' was published 5 years ago .
'morning of kyeongseong ' started 6 years ago .
besides , the main storyline was finished a year before that , in 2005 .
do you have any evidence ?
your work wasn 't even registered for copyright .
don 't think you can get away with this by lying .
you 're the one being preposterous here .
i 'm the one who 's the victim here .
victim ?
admit to it when i 'm putting it nicely .
admit that you plagiarized my work .
no , i will never agree to it since it 's not the truth .
ms. lee go geun , i 'll make sure that your drama never airs .
i 'll apply for an injunction of banning the drama 's broadcast .
go deal with it . let me tell you one more time ,
i 'm not a writer that steals someone else 's work to make a name for myself .
have you read my book ?
you 'll know once you read my book .
excuse me .
i 'm looking for a novel .
what 's the title ?
fated lovers .
[ questions of plagiarism on morning in kyeongseong , a drama before airing has plagiarized ? ]
[ writer jo young eun of ' fated lovers ' wants to reveal the truth ! ]
whoa , even applying for an injunction of banning our drama broadcast ?
who 's calling the kettle black ?
i know !
our writer lee go eun would never plagiarize someone else 's work !
she wouldn 't even know that plagiarizm is spelled with a p !
how presumptuous of them !
this cho yeong eun seems like a weird writer . at any rate , more and more news articles are coming out , and if she 's already started applying for an injunction , this is getting real serious ...
- stop worrying about it .
what they want is exactly this type of attention from the ignorant masses .
so don 't concern yourself with this and do your work .
i 'll take care of it .
yes !
pd joo , come see me for while .
yes ! by the way , what exactly is that injunction of banning the drama 's broadcast ? well , when there is a controversy of plagiarism , they can make a legal request to the court to stop the drama from being aired .
then , what if it gets accepted ?
then , the drama won 't get aired at all .
the drama won 't get aired ?
but that won 't happen to us , so don 't worry .
go make some coffee now .
yeah , no need to worry . get a copy of " fated lovers " and give it to lawyer park , and also send him a copy of the drama proposal and scripts for review .
but .. there 's no way that writer lee would have plagiarized .
is it really necessary to do all that ?
we have to be ready to face them , not sit around doing nothing .
i see .
but ...
don 't you think it might be the empire 's doing ?
it 's not the empire .
this is too small of an issue for it to be an attack from them .
[ application for an injunction of banning morning in kyeongseong in progress ]
is this your doing ?
no chairman .
of course not , it had better not be you !
if you thought of stooping down to such petty tricks like this and stain my reputation , you 'd be dead , too !
it 's definitely not me chairman .
please believe me .
then , fine !
just focus on what i told you to do !
no matter what , we 've got to find some evidence that can put that bastard anthony in jail !
that 's your top priority !
yes , chairman .
alright , let 's start .
as you may already know by now , there is a plagiarism controversy about " morning in kyeongseong . "
has anyone read the ' fated lovers ' ?
i took a look at it , and it seems that it 's not something that can be overlooked .
however , given that they 're both set in the japanese colonization period , some similarities are inevitable .
some parts in the book are indeed similar , i must admit . especially the character of the female protagonist is the same , so that can be a problem for us .
the problem is what the court will decide . plagiarism cases are generally ambiguous , but if the judge decides that it really is plagiarism , then the drama will be banned from broadcasting .
if it comes to that , things will get really serious .
we have to prepare some kind of a counterplan .
who knows if writer lee go eun really did plagiarize her work ?
alright , i understand .
let me first discuss this matter with writer lee go eun .
who is it ?
who is it ?
writer lee , it 's me . director nam , i surprised you by coming here without calling you right ?
but this way , i can check on you and make sure that you 're working on your script .
can i get a cup of tea ?
yes , sure . come in .
yes .
wow , you 've done quite a bit of background research .
yes .
[ fated lovers ]
but still if you had called , i would have prepared something .
no , no need for that .
you must be the busiest person right now .
a cup of tea is just fine .
i 'll drink it well .
ahh , this is peppermint flavor .
yes .
are you doing well ?
yes .
i know what you want to tell me .
you 're here because of the plagiarism issue right ?
is it written on my face ?
it 's not me .
i really didn 't steal it .
that 's right .
you know , as one gets older , his needless worries grow bigger , too .
yes .
writer lee , you should just concentrate on writing your script , and i 'll discuss this matter with representative kim .
what do you think attorney park ? before we get to that , this writer called lee go eun is she someone trustworthy ?
why do you ask ?
i think this is going to be a tough case . the other party has hired someone with a good track record with plagiarism cases like this , lawyer jang hyun jae .
attorney jang ?
yes .
the retainer must be quite hefty .
this writer of " fated lovers "
has put her fate on the line with this lawsuit . unless you can provide some kind of a firm evidence , the injunction of banning the drama 's broadcast may be granted .
[ morning in kyeongseong , a drama before airing in a plagiarism controversy ? ] as you had asked ,
i 've brought all the accounting records of production budgets of the dramas that anthony had produced while he was working in empire .
okay .
good work .
oh , right . about that plagiarism controversy of " morning in kyeongseong , "
you didn 't have a hand in it , did you , director heo ?
i did meet with the writer and introduced lawyer choi and media reporters to her .
lawyer choi is pretty good in that area . director heo , is this the time to work on something so petty ?
were you thinking of tarnishing my reputation with such a pathetic trick ?
!
i 'm sorry .
shall i stop them , then ?
no .
just leave it . however ,
i didn 't hear about this .
understand ?
yes .
if you understand , then leave . if the reason for calling me is about the plagiarism issue with ' morning in kyeongseong , ' then don 't worry about it since i 'm taking care of it .
you know , sometimes , i envy your attitude of always making such bold statements in full confidence .
let me ask you one thing .
this time , does that firm confidence of yours come from your trust in writer lee go eun ? there is only one thing i believe in , that ' morning in kyeongseong 's ' first broadcast will be aired on november 5th .
it 's only that .
i know there should be a back-up cd with a saved copy somewhere ... ah , email .
i 'd sent it to writer jung before .
email ...
[ questions of plagiarism on morning in kyeongseong .
similarities to a 5-year old novel . ]
[ application for an injunction of banning the broadcast of " morning in kyeongseong " in progress ] writer jo young eun of " fated lovers " wants to reveal the truth !
[ the only experience she had was as an assistant writer .
i suppose she plagiarized because she had no talent . ]
[ i was gonna watch it because of min ah , but i guess not . if she can 't write , she shouldn 't be called a writer . ]
[ rookie writer ?
plagiarizer ?
] [ she shouldn 't have done it if she 's got no talent . ]
this is completely a pig 's sty !
mom !
no matter how busy you are , you should atleast clean up !
what is this mess ? that 's right .
what brings you here ?
what brings me here ...
i brought some side dishes for you .
just take a taxi .
got money to burn ?
don 't worry about me
just make sure not to skip your meals no matter how busy you are .
go eun ah ...
keep this is mind
you ... are park kang ja 's daughter despite what anyone says .
i raised you without much money and without a father , but i still put in a lot of love and care into you !
that 's why you need to make sure that you take good care of yourself and stay healthy while you work .
got it ?
yeah , mom .
oh my , the bus is here .
mom is going .
eat well and work .
alright , alright !
[ director goo ]
yes , director . writer lee , is the writing going well ? is the writing going well ?
yes , of course .
don 't pay any attention to that plagiarism thingy .
it happens quite frequently in this field .
yes .
but ... you might have to come here for a while .
you might have to come here for a while .
min ah is asking to revise the script .
it 's the scenes that we 're shooting today .
we 're shooting in the studio right now .
if you could come , i 'd really appreciate it .
yes , i understand .
excuse me , director .
can we get something to eat since i 'm really hungry .
aigoo . we cannot have our actor hungry .
alright then , we 'll take a 30 minute break .
ms. sung min ah .
judging from the underlines on your script , i guess you 're trying to cram your lines at the last minute ?
while i 'm eating , make sure you finish memorizing them .
if you have time to eat , why don 't you analyze your character more in depth ?
if you don 't want me the steal the scene .
sure , so you 're going to challenge me ? when the right opportunity comes , i 'll crush you down for sure !
the little things that annoy me !
hyung , this is bad .
what is ?
- about writer lee go eun .
because of the plagiarism controversy , there 's a lot of internet hate speech .
is it bad ?
yes .
kwang soo .
i don 't know about others but lee go eun would never do something like that .
if it was plagiarized , it was the other writer that did it !
it must be right ? if i think about it , writer lee go eun is right .
new noir with no melodrama . if we were to do something like that book , " fated lovers , " i would have had to hold , hug , and even kiss that bi * * * of sung min ah !
i think hyun min is seriously committed this time .
he 's still got a long way to go , though .
if he 's going to match sung min ah 's acting .
so now we 've just got two solitary scenes of min ah , right ?
is the shooting going well ?
what brings you here ?
i 've got to make sure that you 're not out of practice , director goo .
is that so ?
sure , watch me carefully and judge for yourself if i 'm out of practice or not .
i guess it 's break time ?
yeah , while we 're shooting , min ah said she had something to talk with writer lee .
writer lee ?
she wants some of her lines changed .
i heard that writer lee just got here .
it may take some time for you to witness my not-so-out-of-practice skills in directing .
we can wait .
you 're here .
yes .
i heard that you wanted me to adjust a few lines .
please have a sit .
ah , yes .
what 's the matter with all these lines ?
what are you talking about ?
director , it seems they forgot to turn off the mike .
no leave it .
let 's hear what they 're talking about .
we have nothing special to do anyway .
never mind . episode 1 , scene 43 , the fourth ... gwang soo , isn 't that the voice of sung min ah and writer lee go eun ?
hyung , i guess the microphone isn 't turned off .
it 's not only that .
you 're asking me to change this now ?
yes .
the lines that are underlined all need to be changed so that we can start shooting right away .
there 's no way i can act with those lines .
seriously sung min ah , don 't you think you 're over doing it ?
even though i 'm a new writer ...
it 's not that . unless you want to be branded as a plagirizer for the rest of your career , change them .
what is it that you want to say right now ?
you should know it very well .
i 'm sure you 've read the book ' fated lovers . '
looking at your expression , i guess you did read it .
how was it ? the character of the female protagonist , similar lines , is it just me who 's seeing the similarities ?
tell me , is it just me who 's seeing it ?
i saw it too .
i acknowledge the fact that there are similarities .
turn off the mic . i didn 't see it before , but were you such a shameless person from the beginning ? even though the two works are similar ,
i didn 't steal it . ' morning in kyeongseong ' is something i wrote with my own strength .
how should i believe that ?
it 's true ! there are similar lines because the settings are similar , and that 's because it 's set in the japanese colonization period ...
do you think that 's a valid excuse ?
mr. kang hyun min .
didn 't you admit it .
i heard it all because the mic was on .
writer lee
i 'm really disappointed . whatever the case , start changing these .
with these lines , as long as my name is involved , i can 't act .
you have to .
what ... did you just say ?
i 'm telling you to follow this script without trying to change it .
representative kim .
no matter what , we have to get the drama aired on the scheduled date .
plus i have one request .
don 't call out the writer and demand for any change in the script from now on .
what are you doing not working on your script ?
getting the drama aired is important , but my innocence is important to me , too .
in order to take care of the injunction on banning the broadcast , yes , both are important .
at the end , even you don 't believe me .
yes , i do . i may not believe anybody in this world ,
i may not even believe in myself sometimes , but that me believes in you .
next week on king of dramas . everybody , i am the representative of the production company , anthony kim .
this " morning in kyeongseong " that we are all working on should not become a drama of distrust .
the truth that " morning in kyeongseong " is wholly created by our writer and that it is our rightful drama , writer lee go eun and i vouch for it .
nay , we have to believe it .
and we will prove that truth .
meanwhile , we need to continue shooting " morning in kyeongseong ! "
episode 11 line of life and i may not trust anyone in the world , and sometimes i don 't trust even myself , but i , such a person like that ... trust you . but this matter will not be resolved with that .
if even you felt these two pieces similar , you must prove that you wrote " morning in kyeongseong " earlier ( than that novel ) . proving that you wrote " morning in kyeongseong " by yourself should be the top priority . with that , get acknowledged about your sincerity by other people too .
director , it 's me . ah , yes . please turn on the microphone again .
microphone ?
turn on the microphone .
everyone , i 'm anthony kim , the representative of the production company .
" morning in kyeongseong " which you guys are making now must not become a piece of distrust .
" morning in kyeongseong " is solely the creation made by our writer and us .
not only writer lee go eun but i guarantee that fact .
no , we must believe that !
and i will prove that truth .
instead , " morning of kyeongsong " must keep being filmed .
that 's all i want to say .
therefore , please act without any doubt . even so , if you still can 't trust this script , then trust me and act for that role .
to air our drama without any problem , we need some solid proof to show you wrote " morning in kyeongseong " first .
and we should submit that proof to the court by the day after tomorrow , wednesday .
that novelist said she wrote her first draft in 2006 , right ?
yes .
then , we just need to find the file which you wrote earlier than 2006 . i know that , but ...
but ? it was a long time ago , so although i looked for it everywhere , i couldn 't find it .
then , what about e-mail ?
i had , but again , since it was a long time ago , every record back then had been erased . i 've also contacted some people in that site , but he said it can 't be restored .
then , what about another computer ?
have you ever worked with another computer , not your current laptop ?
other than my laptop ?
yes , other than your laptop .
teacher jeong ? ( writer jeong ) in the laptop of writer jeong hong joo 's studio , which i 'd used when i was her assistant , there might be my file left .
hello , this is writer jeong hong joo .
what should we do ?
it seems she 's now abroad .
where is her studio now ?
what on earth are you going to do later after this ?
what do you mean ?
i 'm doing this to go in .
writer jeong will understand us too . uh , by the way , you two , are you really the owners of this house ?
yes !
of course !
this isn 't the first time my wife has done something like this .
i 'm a bit ... careless .
we have a big age gap , but how could you say i 'm your " wife " ?
honey ..
you should install a new doorlock now .
you know that , right ?
of course .
that 's right .
what are doing not looking for it ?
yes .
i found it !
no , i trust you .
i may not trust anyone in the world , and may not even trust myself ,
but i .. trust you .
see i told you ! / i
doesn 't it feel better coming out ?
i just came with you since you looked so nervous for your debut .
let 's leave after a while .
i 'm not nervous at all .
you don 't believe me ?
i don 't believe in anyone .
sometimes , i don 't trust myself either .
but there 's one thing i have the ultimate trust in .
and that is how you will be the nation 's , no the world 's top star .
don 't tell me you use those words to seduce women ?
now you seem more like a woman .
later , act with your feeling now .
it will be helpful .
it 's not here .
the file i last saved was in 2011 .
i guess everything was erased and newly saved again .
we don 't need to wait and see any longer . well , in front of the actors and staff , the writer came forward and admitted that .
even if it 's a bit late , we should prepare the replacement now .
but is it really true that writer lee admitted that herself ? since sung min ah pushed and asked her , she said that it 's true that those two pieces are similar .
that 's what i heard .
they seemed similar to each other even when i read them . i will submit these materials to the court as evidence , but with only these ,
i can 't guarantee the result .
in the worst case scenario , the injunction to prohibit the airing of the drama , will be approved .
when is the submission of evidence due ?
it 's by midnight today .
pd joo .
yes , representative .
contact that novelist .
tell her i want to meet her before that due time .
pardon ?
what are you going to do when you meet her ?
she won 't accept any deal for settlement .
even if i have to kneel down or beg her , i should do whatever i can .
even if we have to put her name as the writer of the original story , the drama must be aired .
for now , lawyer park , go to the court and submit these materials . pd joo , find out where writer jo young eun is right now .
yes .
then , let 's get going .
is something wrong ?
why ?
do you have writer 's block ?
you must be nervous because the first broadcast day is coming up .
yeah , it must be .
aigoo .. aigoo , why are you crying like a fool ? at your elementary school literary contest , you said that it was embarrassing when i was crying .
did i say that ?
that 's right . the award certificate you won that day , the hand-crafted paper father 's day carnation , and the diary you wrote in saying you 'd become a great writer .. i still have all those things .
why have you kept them still ?
do you think that 's all ?
while you were in high school , you wrote me a letter saying you were going to leave the house .. after finishing ' morning in kyeongseong ' , you even gave me that plastic thing telling me you 'd show me the first .
i still have that too .
when you say ' plastic thing ' .. was it like this small ?
sure is !
mom , where is it ?
why ?
i found it !
what is it ?
morning in kyeongseong - 03.14.2005 .
lee go eun first draft
is that something important ?
this is great !
i found it !
i 'm saved !
thank god .
how much is that ?
it 's priceless !
i 'm saved !
i love you !
that 's such a relief .
i got a hold of writer jo young eun .
she says she 'll wait for you at a cafe near her house in heuksukdong .
alright .
what do you want ?
i found it !
i said , " i found it ! "
i found the first draft of " morning in kyeongseong " i wrote back in 2005 !
oh , taxi !
then , we 're good .
props team , get them ready !
bring those chairs this way !
still no contact from anthony ?
yes .
excuse me .
a decision will be made by court today ..
do you want to try calling ?
alright , let 's start filming !
tell me .
what is your reason ?
ok , cut !
shoot me if you can .
crazy bastard
i said , tell me !
hold on .
stop filming .
yeah . it 's me , representative kim .
the court has made a decision .
and the result ?
what .. ?
i understand .
i 'll pass the message .
everyone .
the result pertaining to the broadcast of " morning in kyeongseong " has arrived .
it has been determined that ..
" morning in kyeongseong " is not a plagiarized script .
it 's an original piece of work !
without an ounce of suspicion , let 's do our best for the first broadcast !
understood , everyone ?
!
yes !
such a crybaby .
oh ..
thank you , representative .
don 't be disorganized in the future .
get your stuff copyrighted , take good care of all your files , and save back-ups .
crying and laughing , way to make a scene .
throw it away .
but it looks expensive .
let 's go together !
aigoo , seriously ! i 'm in a skirt !
stop acting like you 're so clean .
i 'm not .
you 're just dirty .
what is this ?
a.k ?
can 't you tell by looking ?
it 's my name .
ah ..
was your name anthony from the very beginning ?
i mean , even though your parents lived in the united states for so long . they 're still korean , so wouldn 't they give you a korean name ?
no such thing .
my name was anthony from the day i was born .
how can there be anthony in a korean name ?
what do your parents think ?
i never asked them .
then call them and ask them .
they both passed a long time ago .
you don 't need to feel sorry since i 'm not concerned in any way .
then should i give you a korean name ?
what would be good ?
kim ..
kim ..
ah !
how about ' kim young man ' ?
you get insulted by a lot of people . so , short for kim yok mani ( lots of insults ) ,
kim yong man .
are you having fun , messing with me ?
very much so .
40 woo 6976 ... 6976 please , pull over ... 40 woo 6976 ...
look here !
aish !
since it is your fault , cover the fine yourself .
i 'm not the one driving , why do i have to pay ?
you 've ran a stoplight . please show me your license .
aigoo , you 're working hard .
since i have to attend an urgent matter and something like this won 't happen again , can 't you let us off this time ?
yes , please don 't do it again .
- thank you ..
but give me your driver 's license .
your license has expired already . requesting identity confirmation , requesting identity confirmation ,
resident registration no . : 741104-1675138 .
the name , kim bong dal ?
kim as in kimchi , bong as in bongos , and dal as in dallas .
kim bong dal .
aye , why is he saying that ?
kim bong d ... no freaking way !
anthony is kim bong dal ... that 's his real name !
awesome ...
for real ?
excuse me .
you said you didn 't have a korean name .
kim bong dal .
i wonder if that 's an american name too .
kim bong ..
dal ~ ?
don 't laugh .
i 'm sorry , but the name is so irresistible .
kim as in kimchi , bong as in bongos , [ bong means mountain top ]
dal as in dallas .
[ dal means the moon . ]
it 's so funny !
i 'm sorry but ...
it 's too funny ! kimchi ... bongwoori ( meaning " mountain peak " ) ,
daldeongee ( meaning " round face like the moon " ) . so , november 4th is our kim bong dal 's birthday .
yes , the door is not locked .
yes ...
you 're surprised , aren 't you ?
it 's just a joke !
oh , oh my ... i 'm sorry .
you must have been so surprised .
i thought it was someone else .
not at all .
would you like to come in ? i guess you 've been writing the script , so i 'm afraid if i 'm interrupting now .
not at all . please have a seat .
i don 't have anything but coffee , is that okay ?
yes .
what brought you here ?
i came to apologize .
i 'd like to apologize sincerely .
misunderstanding about your script , that was my mistake .
no , i understand why you misunderstood . when i read that book ,
i also thought that different people could come up with similar ideas .
if you think in that way , i 'm thankful .
but , there 's something i was curious about .
what 's the relationship between you and representative ?
was my question a bit odd ?
i was curious about that from the beginning . anthony kim , the previous representative of empire production , isn 't a person who would wager everything he has on a newbie writer 's drama .
what 's up with you two ?
no , there is nothing between the two of us , what do you mean , " relationship " ?
i totally hate a man with that kind of style .
what kind of women in the world would like a man like him ? well , if we must put the word " relationship , " " relationship " of a demon and an angel ?
pardon ?
just ... a vicious representative of drama production company and an angel-like writer ?
something like that ?
but why are you asking that ?
no .
from now on , all of us must run for the highest rating of the first episode of " morning in kyeongseong " on november 5th !
yes !
how are our competitors of other broadcasting stations going now ?
currently , " return of the king " of k broadcasting is running as the number one in ratings .
followed by " between lovers " of m broadcasting in the second .
then , what about s broadcasting ?
its drama is in last with one digit rating ( under 10 % ) .
i don 't think we can get any advantage from the previous drama 's rating .
last tuesday 's rating was 6.2 % .
it was the worst .
it seems we will have a hard fight .
of course it will be hard , but no matter what , we will win .
from the day when anthony took the position of representative to 2009 when he resigned , these are accounting fraud books and the lobbying list which used the money from that accounting fraud .
all of them were instructed by you , chairman , but all accounts and transactions were done under the name of anthony .
other than that , he didn 't steal even a single penny from my money ?
yes .
that 's unexpected .
well , with these , he would be rotting in a prison for at least 10 years .
contact our legal team and let them proceed .
yes .
yes , pd kim .
i called you because i heard our " morning in kyeongseong " will be introduced at your " entertainment tonight . "
yes , yes .
then , please take good care of that .
i 've sent the revised script for episode 7 .
mr. kim .
bong .
dal .
yes , mom .
hey , we have big trouble .
come quickly to our restaurant .
what 's going on ?
can 't you see ?
there are so many customers here !
aigo ...
i can 't do this by myself !
mom !
is that big trouble ?
of course , it is !
top star , kang hyun min is visiting here himself !
mr. kang hyun min ?
why are you here ?
why ?
to promote writer lee 's " morning in kyeongseong , " i 'm here .
they are from my fan club .
kang hyun min !
kang hyun min !
kang hyun min !
kang hyun min !
- everyone !
- yes ! this person is the beautiful writer of our " morning in kyeongseong , " writer lee go eun .
- writer lee .
- yes .
please say something . please say something . please say something .
huh ?
ah ... yes ...
hello !
i 'm writer lee go eun .
nice to meet you all .
our " morning in kyeongseong "
will be aired soon .
there are not many days left until its first episode .
please promote our drama a lot .
our " morning in kyeongseong " and here mr.kang hyun min , no , from now on , kim woo jin ( the role 's name ) , you will give lots of love to them , right ?
yes !
but , seriously , why are you here ?
i 'm sorry for misunderstanding your drama , writer lee .
i thought that apologizing with only words wouldn 't be enough .
so , you want to apologize with money and your fans ?
because i have nothing but only money and fans !
then , i will get going for filming now .
again , sorry ! see you later !
goodbye !
yes , representative ?
you want me to amend all of the script for episode 7 ?
not all of them but scene 42 and scene 43 with that clumsy melodrama part .
clum ... clumsy ?
it even has the kiss scene of the main two characters , but where do you mean is it clumsy ?
writer lee , when you kiss a man , are you doing it in this way ?
huh ?
no , i mean , have you ever kissed a man ?
i have !
then , do it .
what ?
!
in my eyes , the kiss scene in scene 43 gives only the feeling of two wooden sticks hitting each other .
so , i 'm telling you to try it yourself , writer lee .
pardon ?
pd joo , read out loud scene 43 .
well , everyone , let 's see .
scene 43 , inside of modern club . sad piano music is filling the empty club ,
kim woo jin is sitting alone in front of the piano and playing it .
at this moment , with tip-tap , tip-tap sound of high heels , a woman approaches woo jin .
what are you doing ?
i told you to try it yourself .
even if woo jin sensed hye rin coming near him , he doesn 't stop playing . hye rin grabs his hand .
woo jin stops playing the piano .
hye rin speaks . " from now on , your playing piano , can you do it only for me ? "
woo jin stays still , not taking his eyes off the piano .
hye rin speaks .
" even if i lie to you , even if i .... even if i betray you , i 'm asking if you can play the piano , only for me . "
" no . " after that , woo jin stands up , staring at hye rin , and kisses her ?
even that dumb kang hyun min won 't be able to grab sung min ah and kiss her !
i 'm not an actress , though !
a writer is supposed to write to make actors act !
if you feel so wronged , then go ahead , ask these male viewers what they think .
that 's why you should revise it . i don 't think it 's because you don 't like melodramas , but because you can 't write them . pd joo , contact the assistant director and tell him scene 42 and scene 43 will be revised , so he should proceed with the other scenes ' filming , except for those scenes .
the reason ...
don 't ask me why .
what i can do for you is ...
cut !
ng !
min ah , this is already the fourth ng . it 's not a difficult line , but what 's wrong ?
i 'm sorry , director .
then , let 's take a 10-minute break !
we will resume after 10-minute break !
what are you doing , being so childish ?
then , what about you , miss sung min ah ?
you childishly doubted writer lee , but have you apologized to her ?
what 's that with today 's filming ?
if you humiliated a person publicly , shouldn 't you officially apologize to her in front of all of them ?
i apologized to her officially , so please , stop that moronic act .
mo ~ ron !
moronic act ?
that 's right ! you will keep experiencing that ! this kang hyun min 's revenge , it 's season one , two , three , four !
it will be continued !
hyung , have you read the script for episode 7 ?
why ?
the revision has been made from episode 1 , so the melodrama line starts sooner too .
is that so ?
there is even a kiss scene with miss sung min ah .
what ?
kissing scene ?
yeah .
but as per the assistant director , it will be revised .
representative , then , we will go home now .
okay , you 've worked hard today .
since tomorrow is our first air date , have a good sleep tonight .
you will need to run around all day , tomorrow .
yes , i understand !
we will leave , then .
scene # 43 , inside of modern club .
what ?
i can 't even kiss ?
should i experience a kiss to write well about a kiss scene ?
then , what about a story about a serial killer ? its writer should be a serial killer ?
how absurd it is ...
hello .
excuse me ... ah , because of that damn kim bong dal , i can 't focus on the right feeling .
kim bong dal 's birthday !
what is it ?
didn 't you go home ?
i have some business to do with you , representative .
business ?
anthony , anthony , anthony ~ happy birthday to you ~ happy birthday to you ~ happy birthday , dear representative !
happy birthday to you ~ ~ !
representative , happy birthday !
what are you doing now ?
today is your birthday , representative .
your id number ...
kimchi , bongwoori ( " peak " ) , daldeongee ( " moon face " ) !
i 'm sorry , but can 't you see i 'm working now ?
stop interrupting and get out , please .
that 's what i 'm saying !
geez . maybe today isn 't his birthday .
that 's weird , because i heard it clearly .
maybe he had something bad earlier .
is he sulking now ? anyway , i 'm sorry !
no .
what are you sorry for ?
we 'll escort you to your studio .
ah , really ?
- yes . - oh , we 're mannered guys .
alright !
by the way , what are they about , kimchi , bongwoori , dalmaji ( " viewing the moon " ) ?
no , it 's daldeongee ( " moon face " ) !
can i meet you now ?
i will wait at the cafe .
happy birthday !
it 's the ring , which you cherished as if it was your life because you believed it protected your success .
it won 't be exactly same as that one , but it will look almost same .
please make sure to succeed with this drama too .
thank you , but i 'd like to decline this present .
please just accept it .
i 'm sorry but this one ... can 't be that ring .
it 's the ring , which you cherished as if it was your life because you believed it protected your success .
don 't worry about me .
even when you 're in the states , don 't skip your meals , and take good care of your health .
understand ?
mom ...
what ?
your attention , please .
passengers for new york , ... oh , dear . you 'd better go now .
i will go , then .
he-hey !
this is your father 's ring .
take this ring .
hurry up , or you will be late .
hurry up , go !
it seems you 're busy these days . today she was anticipating you more than usual , wanting to stay up until late , and just went to bed .
did you have some seaweed soup ?
[ seaweed soup is traditionally eaten on b-days ]
weren 't you asleep ?
i 'm sorry .
i should have taken care of it but since my body 's like this .
that 's why you have to quickly get up and leave this place .
so that you can cook seaweed soup for me .
right .
i have to .
since i saw your face , it 's okay now .
you must be busy .
hurry and leave .
be careful when you leave .
i look forward to the first broadcast tomorrow .
it 'll go well , don 't worry too much .
you are your mom 's son .
finally , it 's tomorrow .
my new destiny will start .
will i be smiling at the end of that destiny ?
i 'll be able to smile .
no , i just hope that i will be able to smile .
today , the food is free in celebration of ' morning in kyeongseong 's ' first broadcast !
welcome !
today , the food is on me !
yes , it 's all free !
the day we 've all been waiting for , the first broadcast day of " morning in kyeongseong , " has finally arrived .
send the press release materials to all media venues , as we have to let the whole country know about the premier of our drama !
yes , understood !
revise the final trailer and get it aired starting 9 hours before the premier .
include scenes that haven 't been relased so far ...
i think that 'd be better .
here it is .
ok , start music here .
team leader han , make sure that the entertainment news show , that airs tonight , goes smoothly .
lastly , each of you can leave a message to the viewers throughout the country .
dear viewers , ' morning in kyeongseong ' , the show you 've been waiting for will have its first broadcast tonight at 9 : 55 .
yes , i hope that many of you will watch it .
fighting !
this concludes the coverage of " morning in kyeongseong . "
have you had dinner ?
good work people .
it 's a wrap for today .
tonight , let 's all enjoy the first episode in the comfort of our own respective homes .
ah , time is so slow .
how many more minutes ?
30 minutes .
what ?
30 minutes .
are you really not going to watch the first episode ?
unni , you know about my jinx .
if i watch the first episode , the viewership rating sucks .
ok , i understand .
- i 'm leaving , rest well
- yes .
why did you want me to come all the way here ?
monitor the live viewership ratings along with your script of the episode .
see for yourself what element excites the viewers and what makes them change the channel .
from now on until the 20th episode , you are breathing with the viewers .
you 're here ?
representative kim , congratulations .
you 've made a comeback after 3 years .
i 'll accept that after 70 minutes .
sure .
congratulaitons , writer lee .
finally , you 've become a real writer .
thank you .
broadcasting in 3 minutes .
watch that viewership rating graph carefully .
the life and death of all of us is on that line of destiny .
2 minutes .
1 minute .
in a few minutes , the drama my daughter wrote will be on .
10 seconds .
5seconds 4,3 , 2 , 1 start ! 4,3 , 2 , 1 start !
we have a start with 7.1 %
not a great start .
what do we do ? it 's been 30 minutes , and it 's at 6.8 % .
we 're still the lowest .
where are you going ?
it 's still in the middle of the broadcast !
it 's all over .
it 's only been 30 minutes since the show started .
half an hour has passed already and the rating is in the pits .
we have lost .
in total misery .
so you 're here .
that 's why i told you . we need to go for melodrama , not noir .
ajummah , can i get a glass here , too ?
what are you doing ?
i 'm going to drink too .
go work on your script .
i want to be alone .
thank you .
representative kim .
the show just finished .
i suppose .
the average viewership rating has been calculated .
speak .
yes .
yes .
i understand .
the viewership rating result is in ?
we must have had a spike towards the end .
viewership rating is 15.7 % .
we 're in the lead !
oh my !
15.7 !
this is awesome !
we 've hit it off big !
- congratulations !
- jackpot !
jackpot !
congratulations !
this is just the beginning .
awesome !
we 're first !
15.7 %
- 15.7 % - thanks , lord !
yes ?
15.7 % ?
first ?
oh my !
yes , what did i tell you ?
didn 't i tell you ' morning in kyeongseong ' would be a success ?
i 'm anthony after all .
where are you going ?
i should go work on the script with this energy !
forget the script , tonight you should drink !
yes .
yes .
yes .
yes , i understand .
finally the era of kang hyun min has started .
conquer korea , then japan , china , taiwan , and then the whole world !
didn 't i tell you we 'd definitely be success ?
tch !
don 't you remember what you just said a while ago ?
what did i tell you ?
we shouldn 't have gone with noir .
when did i ?
at any rate , i think this is meaningful in so many different ways .
especially that we got the highest rating with a genre that hadn 't been attempted in korea before . of course , the producer 's eye in discerning the right script was especially crucial .
what about the promising writer 's writing skills with tenacity ?
you sure are a promising writer , but you still have a long way to go .
at any rate , a drama writer needs to know how to write good melodrama .
nothing like that pathetic kissing scene .
that talk again ! tell me truthfully , you 've never had a kiss right ?
that of cours-
you haven 't felt your heart beating for a man .
i 've felt it before .
not just a childish crush .
i 've definitely ,
you 've definitely not experienced that .
seriously , aren 't you drinking a little too much ?
you were already drinking before i came here .
i 'm anthony .
mere alcohol can 't defeat me .
pd joo , where are you ?
eh ?
soowon ?
it 's nothing .
well , it 's just ... no , never mind .
ah man , ah , darn !
mere alcohol what ?
can 't defeat me ?
seriously !
i guess ... it 's my fault ... for drinking with him .
sleep well . [ dropping the honorifics ]
don 't ever drink again !
what do you think about me ?
yes ?
how do you think of me as a man ?
see you tomorrow ~ preview so what you two are saying right now ..
.. is that you have a problem with the kiss scene in episode 7 ? that 's right .
you are under arrest for professional negligence and misappropriation of funds .
exactly why do you hate me so much ?
i 'll kill you .
stop sabotaging the production of " morning in kyeonseong , " alread !
please ! how dare you order me around ?
if you 've got a nice lady friend , you can bring her to me .
i 'll show you when i find one .
what have you been doing all those years without ever dating a boyfriend ?
how i hate him , hate him .
the mother of mr. kim bong dal is seriously ill .
mo , mother ?
mom !
mom !
episode 12 no enemy is permanent how do you think of me as a man ? well ...
this is called " melodrama . " this heartbeating , fluttering , this is " melodrama " right there ! so , now , go and revise that melodrama scene .
what was that ? that scared me ... what kind of human being is he ?
seriously !
what do you think about me ?
how do you think of me as a man ?
what man ?
but why couldn 't i say no at that moment ?
no .
that was because i was toyed in a flash .
that 's right .
crazy bong dal ...
so embarrassing !
who is it ?
who is it ?
it 's me .
what 's this ?
what is he doing here ?
why are you here ?
i have something to say , so open the door first .
what do you have to say ?
you didn 't answer me before .
huh ?
how do you think of me as a man ?
i 'm thinking of you in this way .
oh , that was a relief . ( because it was a dream . )
what 's a relief ?
what time do you think it is now that you 're still in bed ?
since when have you been here ?
since a little while ago .
when i came in , you were pawing the air as if you were a turtle which was flipped over .
even if you are the producer , how could you come in a female writer 's studio thoughtlessly ?
this is a writer 's studio paid by my money and opened by me .
but that writer didn 't even answer the phone call and didn 't show any reaction to the door because she was too busy sleeping .
so , what else can i do , then ?
if you need to sleep that much , do you think you can survive in this drama industry ?
why did you come ?
hurry and revise the melodrama scene of episode 7 and send it to us .
we need to film that scene on this thursday .
i will revise that scene !
do it quickly ! well !
get out !
even if you don 't tell me to go , i will leave .
and from now on , even if you 're sleeping , when i call you , answer it .
because i don 't want to see you pawing the air when i 'm so busy .
ah , seriously ... " morning in kyeongseong , " from the first episode , wins monday-tuesday .
woo hoo ~ " morning in kyeongseong , " from the first episode , wins monday-tuesday .
" kang hyun min 's charisma was shining . "
" indeed , it was kang hyun min , just like everybody said . "
[ sung min ah , her comeback drama after 3 years shows its signal of success . "
min ah , what are you doing ?
oh , you 're here .
what ?
" morning in kyeongseong , " the pioneer of new drama genre . " catching two birds and great harmony between a veteran director and a newbie writer .
" writer lee go eun , i 've never heard of her name , but she 's the best ! " " even if she 's a newbie , her writing is awesome ! "
then , let 's proceed with it accordngly .
you 've worked hard ! you 've work hard . well , and this one has not only a good rating , but also the reaction ( from the viewers ) is really great .
it went so viral . this drama hit the jackpot , jackpot !
did it ? well , i think , our writer lee go eun , don 't you think we should start managing her ? ( meaning " keeping her " )
do you know what people on the internet say about lee go eun ?
they say " the next writer kim soo hyun ( one of the best korean drama writers ) . "
i think we should give her at least a present or something .
what kind of present do you think would be good ?
- a present ?
- yes !
cp lee .
- let 's calm down a little bit , please .
- calm down ?
i will leave now .
so , not a present , but calm down ?
hello ?
is this writer lee go eun ?
yes . who is it ?
hello .
this is reporter kim eun hee from woo ri daily newspaper .
i called you because i 'd like to have an interview .
interview ?
with whom ?
with you , writer lee .
you want to have an interview with me ?
yes , reporter kim .
yes .
but , can i pick the place ? ( to have an interview )
is there any special reason you picked this place ?
yes .
because " morning in kyeongseong " started from this place .
- here ?
- yes .
when i was living here , i came up with its idea and wrote its first draft .
then , this is the most perfect place to have an interview with you , writer lee . after the first episode of " morning in kyeongseong " was aired , its reaction ( from the viewers ) was very good .
who is the first one you think of or you are grateful of ?
of course it 's my mom , mrs. park kang ja .
if it weren 't for my mom , i wouldn 't have been able to write again .
- your mother ?
- yes .
oh , and there is one more person .
who else ? even if that person has really bad personality and is heartless , because this guy made me go through so much hardship , but if it weren 't that person , " morning in kyeongseong " couldn 't have been born .
who is that person ?
mr. kim bong dal .
how does it feel to be outside ?
it has been a while since you had fresh air .
i feel so good .
i can hear the sound of spring coming , too .
the sound of spring coming ?
for spring to come , we still have to wait for a long time . like the sound of spring coming ,
i can hear the sound of some welcome guest coming .
that drama was really enjoyable .
if you think it 's enjoyable , then it 's really enjoyable .
it 's rating is really good , too .
you 've worried a lot , haven 't you ?
me ?
no .
from the beginning , i knew it would be successful .
whatever your son makes will be the best , so don 't worry at all . don 't work too hard like that , and if you have a good girl , you should show her to me , too . even if i can 't see her , if i hear her voice ,
i will be able to know how good a woman she is .
if i have , i will show her to you , then .
umm .. for a while , even if you 're busy , please come visit her often .
even though she doesn 't show it , her condition has been quite bad these days .
yes , i understand .
yes .
yes , speaking .
this is prosecutor kim dong chan from the taxation investigation unit of seoul central prosecutor 's office .
there is a complaint filed against you , so you should come now .
what are you talking about ?
don 't you understand what i 'm saying ?
i 'm saying you 've been summoned .
unless you want to be humiliated in front of your family , come here right away ! so , you 're saying you can 't admit all the charges described here ?
yes , that 's right .
but , according to the materials we 've received , the evidence is pretty clear .
from 2006 , 2007 and ... until 2009 .
see for yourself .
it seems like the material submitted by empire production .
even all the little details about you are described . i understand how you feel now , but let 's proceed with it simply not dragging too much time .
please let me have a cross-examination with oh jin wan , the accuser .
come in !
a little while ago , anthony was summoned to the prosecutor 's office and interrogated .
as you wish , i will arrange the cross-examination with the accuser , so see you next time .
yes , pd joo .
yes , representative .
were you occupied , by any chance ?
i couldn 't reach you for a while .
it was nothing .
but why ( did you look for me ) ?
well , i called you to ask if you want to see today 's episode at the broadcasting control room again .
of course , i should be there .
who is it ?
it 's delivery service .
are you lee go eun ?
yes .
please take this .
yes .
could you sign here , please ?
here you go .
work hard . yes .
writerleego eun !
cheeringforyouforever !
[ cp lee sung jo ]
i guess you really like that gift ?
oh , you came ?
man , he 's so shallow .
look how his attitude towards you has changed overnight .
but , why are you here ?
why do you think i 'm here ?
to congratulate you on getting the lead in ratings .
congratulations for you .
please come in .
essentially , the viewership rating went up right at that moment .
a vertical spike !
what is it that you want to tell me ?
huh ?
" tell you " ?
what do you mean ?
that 's the way it always is .
you always ask me for some favor when you come .
it 's alright , you can say it . hey ,
i really came just to congratulate you .
i said it 's alright .
what is it this time ?
about the kiss scene ...
isn 't it rather awkward ?
it 's like putting two stick figures together .
i 'm working on a revision anyway ,
oh really !
of course !
i knew it !
seriously , didn 't i tell you that there 's no need to worry , gwang soo ? i mean , i was ok , but he was losing sleep over it because he was worried for me , so my heart beat went beep .
we shouldn 't be sitting around here .
let 's get out .
where to ?
i 'll buy you a gift .
a gift ?
i have noticed that your .. winter wardrobe seems rather ... lacking .
let 's go out .
i 'll buy you a warm , cozy winter jumper .
you want to buy me a winter jumper ?
yes . i 'll buy it .
whatever you want .
as much as i want ?
anything you want !
take your pick !
go ahead !
thank you . thank you .
do you have this in size 100 ?
that color is not good .
this is the newest !
this one !
actually , i don 't like to wear something unless it 's from the newest line .
mr. hee jae , i heard that this winter is going to be warm .
it looks too warm .
up to how many can i get for free with the sponsorship ?
just two .
darn it ... !
we have a good start from the get go .
i think the second episode will have an even higher rating !
in the end ... that was what you wanted ?
just do as i say .
cut !
that 's a wrap .
listen , our show is being aired just fine , so let 's focus on our work !
good job .
thisshissallbecoz .... brrrrrr . brrrr , ah , man , my tongue is stiff .
i 'm so sorry .
ah . let 's do it again .
why did my tongue get so stiff ?
sorry . i 'm sorry .
this is all all ... * cough * uh , i 'm sorry . uh , i feel bad .
it 's winter , you know .
this is all becox of your ....
man , i forgot my line !
i 'm sorry .
ah , ms. ji yeon , what is my next line ? do you know ? min ah , are your knees ok ?
yes , i 'm okay .
i can tolerate this much .
i 'm really sorry .
it hurts a lot , doesn 't it ?
sorry , min ah .
search for it over there .
yes .
are you alright ? oops .. i 'm sorry , director !
my hand was freezing , so i guess i aimed wrong . i 'm sorry ! well , if you can , for the hitting scene , let 's go without an ng .
yes .
ready ...
action !
oh , what should i do ?
i guess my hand is still freezing , what should i do ... ?
oh , i 'm so sorry !
i 'm sorry .
let 's go again .
oh , what was my next line ?
ji yeon !
what was my next line ?
i 'm sorry !
i 'm sorry .
what on earth is the reason you 're doing this to me ?
cut !
okay !
that was good !
hyun min !
are you alright ?
sure , i 'm fine !
it hurts a lot , doesn 't it ?
oh , it 's swollen , so red !
what should we do ... ?
good work !
good work !
we 'll move to the next location in 30 minutes .
okay .
i can see you 're drooling .
by the way , that person , i 've never seen her before .
she is the new fd .
ah , fd ... [ meet writer lee go eun of " morning of kyeongseong , " the new drama in the news . ]
.... " and she expressed her gratitude to mr. kim bong dal as well . " representative , the photo of writer lee looks really great , doesn 't it ?
well , just so-so .
by the way , who do you think would be that kim bong dal ?
who knows .
but , isn 't his name so funny ?
these days , people don 't use such a rustic name .
kim bong dal ... ?
koo hee jae .
yes .
don 't concern about other people 's names , and do your job driving properly .
yes .
in a situation of divergent love , they 're kissing ...
kiss ... by grabbing her hand , woo jin stops her from leaving .
how do you think of me as a man ?
the door is not locked .
ah , one sec ...
what is that ?
that dumb expression ?
what 's wrong with my expression ?
aren 't you curious ?
about what ?
what do you mean " what " ?
the rating for episode 2 , i mean .
ah , how was it ?
16.2 % . we 're still the highest , but with the second highest , the difference is only 0.8 % , so don 't loosen up yet .
yes .
did you revise that kiss scene ?
yes , of course .
how is it ?
it 's okay .
from now on , do it well on your own .
pardon ?
what have you done so far , not having dated anyone ?
well , i guess no man would stick around to put up with all your bad temper .
ah , from now on , if you 're grateful , say it to me personally .
don 't beat around the bush by saying it to a reporter .
geez , that guy ...
he really makes me not like him .
does it hurt a lot ?
yes , it hurts crazily .
is that wench crazy ?
what face does she think she deals with ... seriously ...
oppa .
huh ? your cheek went in further , so your chin looks even longer .
what ?
no ... sung min ah , this fox-like wench !
by the way , hyung .
what ? i received the revised script , but its kiss scene seems even stronger now .
what ?
... " kisses her . "
oppa !
you said there is no kiss scene !
kwang soo .
get ready with the car .
pardon ?
where are you going ?
are you asking that because you don 't know ? so , when they said it would be revised , they meant that she 's writing the kiss scene better .
with that moron ?
give me the phone .
" the number you called isn 't available at the moment ... " then , about the funds he snuck out , are you saying you have no knowledge , mr. oh jin wan ?
yes .
i had no knowledge of it . sunbaenim , why don 't you tell him the truth ?
all that money , what did you do with that ?
prosecutor .
chief prosecutor wants you to call him .
i got it .
let 's take a short break .
what on earth do you think you 're doing now ?
as if you don 't know .
you would know well that i wouldn 't die alone .
where and when i used that money , do you want me to spill it all out ?
try it , then .
because i 've already got rid of all evidence of that money being used for lobbying .
and there is no evidence it was done by chairman 's instruction .
what we have are only the traces of transactions of all that money in your bank account .
why on earth ... do you hate me so much ?
if this is because of all humiliation i 've given you ...
humiliation ...
no .
you wouldn 't know how it feels even if you came back from death . [ dropping the honorifics ]
director oh , director oh ... even if i was called so sickly and treated even less than a bug , such things can still be erased . however , because your bulls * * tting philosophy that you should even abandon your father for a drama ,
as long as that moment , that memory remains in my brain , you ...
i 'm going to kill you .
well , then , let 's stop this cross-examination .
you can go back now .
wait . where do you think you 're going ?
for dereliction of duty and embezzlement , you 're arrested without warrant . until the warrant is approved , for the next 48 hours , you can 't leave this office , not even a step . ah , these days , because of that guy , i had a big headache , but thanks to you , i 'm relieved now .
yes , please take good care of this case .
yes .
arrested without a warrant ?
why is that all of a sudden ?
that 's why you should have minded your behaviors .
i asked you why !
can 't you tell just by looking at this ?
you 're in a serious bind right now .
even if you had to part ways with him , you shouldn 't have done that to your superior .
hey , kim joo yong !
it 's been a while .
yes , what 's going on ?
oh , end-of-the-year gathering ? well , actually , currently , at my district prosecutor 's office , the representative of the production company of one of your dramas has been arrested without a warrant .
arrested without a warrant ?
who from our dramas ?
" morning in kyeongseong , " sounded like it 's still going on .
" morning of kyeongseong " ?
is representative kim there ?
yes , but i don 't think he 'll be released easily .
seems like there was an order from the higherups .
someone must be behind all this .
okay ...
thanks .
she 'd said she 'd revise it ... how dare she make a fool of me ?
!
hyung we 're here .
oh , why are you here ?
why ?
do you have to ask ? so , let me get this straight , both of you have issues with the kissing scene in episode 7 ?
that 's right .
-that 's right .
but both of you knew that there will be some romance later in the story . although they realize that they love each other more than anybody , they have to be enemies , so this is a pivotal turning point for these two characters .
that 's what makes it all the more tragic .
a kiss doesn 't make it more tragic , though , to leave it as tragic , they should just stare at each other .
which we can pull off well enough with our acting skills .
exactly !
at any rate , change it like that .
without the kiss .
after revising the previous draft because it was considered too bland , i can 't do that .
who said that ?
i mean , who said that it 's bland ? well , i 'm not saying that i revised it because of one person 's opinion , but i also thought it was bland after all , so i ended up revising it . also , if , by any chance , this is because you don 't get along with each other , i 'll be seriously disappointed .
unni , do we not get a long ? [ dropping the honorifics ]
i wouldn 't say we don 't . [ still uses honorifics ]
what does the director say ?
no matter what the director says , i can 't do it .
no , i won 't .
don 't change your word later .
we have to be persistent to the end .
just make sure that you don 't change your words .
don 't worry .
i also have no desire to kiss you .
well then , that 's good . if i could avoid kissing that firefox ,
i 'd gladly swim in the ocean again ! if i have to kiss that moron , i 'd rather have my character shot dead so i can quit the drama .
so , hyung , do you think writer lee will revise it ?
after all , you did end up swimming in the ocean .
jesus christ !
no way !
moron
yes ? i 'd like to share from my experience of ending up swimming in the ocean , if we really want to avoid the kiss scene , we have to present an appropriate alternative .
alternative ?
for example , we could make the revision ourselves and give it to her .
that 's not a bad idea .
this one , this one , this one , this one ! take out " he kisses her , " and change it to " woojin gazes at her . "
well , that doesnt work with the flow of the movement from the earlier scene .
you also have to take out the " he grabs her hand and stops her from leaving . "
then , how is he going to gaze at her ?
just blankly ?
can 't you pull it off with your acting skills ?
well , i have to see you to try acting .
then , why don 't we each fix our own parts .
okay , fine . i got it . i 'm hanging up .
good .
that idiot .
darn , that vixen .
man , if she 's going to do it anyway , why doesn 't she fix mine , too ...
jesus christ .
oh , writer lee .
your revision of the kiss scene is great !
but , representative kim isn 't here ?
no . he left in the morning .
what is it ?
nothing , just wondering why i couldn 't reach him .
let 's not waste any more time here .
no matter what , you 'll end up in prison .
just fess up everything so that your sentence can get reduced at least , mr. stiff-neck !
man , what is he doing with his phone turned off all day ?
yes , director , this is writer lee .
could i see you for a moment ?
" no matter what the director says , i can 't do it ? "
" no , i won 't ? "
no , that 's not it , director . that 's ...
i didn 't know you were such a snitch , writer lee .
excuse me ?
a snitch ? director ... in the end , what you 're saying is that you absolutely can 't do the kiss scene .
that 's correct . i 'm really sorry , but i just can 't do it , director .
yes , me too . fine , if you have to have things your way , then i 'll do things my way , too .
you know about my past , right ?
if i say i quit , i do quit !
and once i get started on something , there 's no stopping me . the past five years , i was drowning in wine , ruining my life , then turned around to work really hard on a drama .
once i drink this , i have no idea what might become of me .
what are you going to do ?
can you do it or not ?
the taste of wine is dragging me back to alcoholism .
director !
director !
i 'll do it .
and you , min ah ? i 'll do it , but , i can 't drink any alcohol , director .
then go and have a good night 's sleep .
tomorrow we have a full schedule ahead !
i understand .
i 'm leaving .
ah , really how can you keep drinking ?
you have a drink too .
refreshing cassia seed tea is good for your health .
what ?
cassia seed tea ?
oh !
this really isn 't alcohol .
ah , you really shocked me !
this is what it means to be " seasoned . "
it 's good ! someone was so confident about not changing his mind , but i shouldn 't have trusted someone 's words .
then what about you ?
who suggested it first ?
you 'd better brush your teeth properly ( before filming the kiss scene ) .
four times per day !
you 'd better have your teeth scaled !
the representative hasn 't come back yet ? yes , his cell phone is still turned off , so i was worried and waiting for him , but now i 'm about to go home .
he has never been like this before .
representative ?
ah , yes ...
who ?
i 'm sorry but there is no one named kim bong dal in this company .
yes .
i 'm sorry , but i guess you dialed the wrong number .
hold on , pd joo .
hold on , please .
hello .
hello , this is from chamsomang sanatorium .
sanatorium ?
yes .
is there anyone named kim bong dal ?
ah , if you tell me what you called for , i will leave the message for him .
i called because mr. kim bong dal 's mother is in critical condition now .
mo ... his mother ?
yes . please tell him he must come now .
well , wait a moment , where is your sanatorium ?
okay .
what is the reason you came to visit me ?
regarding the prosecutor 's investigation about representative kim , which is currently happening , please halt it right away .
i didn 't know that you cherished anthony that much , director nam .
no !
stop trying to sabotage the production of " morning of kyeongseong , " please !
how dare you order me to stop ...
father !
it has already been for 20 years that you didn 't acknowledge me as your father , shutting me off .
but now , are you taking sides with that bastard who backstabbed your father ?
i got it .
then , not as your son , but as director of sbc drama department , please let me rephrase it . your contemptible action , mr.chairman , then can you stop doing this ? anthony , that bastard has also lived in the way which you are contemptuous of , so he 's just purged of that sin .
that 's all .
purged of the sin ?
then , do you think you 're not guilty ?
what ?
please stop .
okay ?
and also ... as you said , i 've been shutting you off for last 20 years . but if you still have thoughts of me as your son , and if you don 't want to lose your one and only son forever , please stop , i beg you .
yes .
huh ?
!
can you fire that writer ?
i 'm asking if you can fire her for me .
what are you talking about ?
who knows .
i just wanted to know your thoughts .
before that let me ask something as well .
what are you going to do if lee go eun won 't change her script to the end ?
the things i want , i get all of them , as you know . of course ,
i couldn 't have only one person , though .
in the future it will be difficult as well .
i know .
that you don 't feel or want such a thing like love .
but i don 't care .
because i will make you love me .
after all , that was what i thought .
you were trying to shake the scripts as you want by a scheme with sung min ah .
there was no such intention at all .
but it 's clear that it was predetermined .
it was predetermined ?
sung min ah is an actress in the position who can choose not only her co-star but also the writer .
this is the inevitable process we should endure from the moment sung min ah was cast .
you promised me that you wouldn 't touch the script .
i definitely did .
but now you 're telling me to change it , even by using the actress , managers of the broadcasting station !
i have not told you to fix the script even once .
what did you say ?
fighting with a director , struggling with a producer , being interfered by the broadcasting station , and having a power game with actors consistently are a drama writer 's fate !
that 's why i was once fired by the pressure from the broadcasting station , and fought with you all the time , representative .
now i 'm fighting with the actress .
right now , you know i would obviously lose , so you 're telling me there is no need to fight .
no !
fight !
fight openly on the square against her !
you said you wanted to protect your script .
so fight . fight and win !
but in return , you 're fighting alone .
no one at all will help you .
so ... being a writer is an infinitely lonely job .
oh , right now ?
yes . understood .
representative .
it was cp lee sung gyu that just called .
he wants you to come to the station right now .
right now ?
he wants to talk with you about the production budget .
fight !
face the challenge and fight on !
you said you want to protect your script , right ?
then , fight . fight and win .
however , you 'll be fighting on your own .
not a single soul will help you .
writer lee .
joo pd .
i have a favor to ask of you .
that does not make sense .
it 's a period piece with kang hyun min and sung min ah as the leads .
you got 10 billion won from the sponsor , you have enough to cushion that ! that 10 billion is only an investment that needs to be returned to the producer once the drama is finished .
well , that .. that is true .
of course , i know that .
total production cost is 9.8 billion .
the 300 million per episode makes 6 billion .
projected international sales is 1.7 billion .
cable network sales is 10 billion .
that 's only 8.7 billion in total .
you want me to take a deficit of 1.1 billion won ?
no ... you want me to take a deficit of 1.1 billion won ? no ...
that 's not what i mean ...
no ...
that 's right !
product placements ! you can get money that way !
the historical setting is during japanese colonization . product placements are not viable !
that ...
i see .
i 'll talk with the director in person .
representative kim ...
why do you have to give us so much trouble ?
just go easy on us .
and besides , the director is not in his office at the moment .
hey , hey , hey , wait .
it 's my treat .
are you putting it on the corporate card as the director ?
hey , i don 't use the corporate card on my personal business .
installments for 3 months , please .
hey , what is wan soo doing ?
unemployed .
representative kim , what brings you here ?
i came to see you , director .
i 'm sorry .
i guess i need to talk with him .
alright , i will see you later .
i 'll call you
- okay .
what is it ? is it urgent ?
it 's about the production cost of " morning of kyeongseong . "
if it 's about the production cost , it 's no use for you to come here , representative kim .
it 's been already decided , as you know .
i don 't understand why you 're giving us an amount similar to small dramas like " children of paradise . "
do you think that drama will guarantee as much commercial advertisement profit as my drama ?
probably not .
but that is why that drama is important to us as well .
because nobody invests money in it .
nobody expects it to make any money .
if you know that it 's not going to make any money , why do it ?
because the world today desperately needs that drama . understood ?
are you saying that " morning of kyeonseong " is not a drama the world needs ?
no , " morning of kyeongseong " has its own value , too , that the world can benefit from .
plus , it 's got commercial potential as well .
it 's a great drama .
however , even dramas that nobody thinks will make money need to be produced , is what i think .
not for profits , but for its benefits to the society .
do you enjoy playing holier-than-thou like that ? sure , i suppose someone like you wouldn 't know the joy in it .
sure .
it seems that the massage place is the most likely place at that hour .
welcome .
may i see your member id ?
miss sung min ah is inside , right ?
i 'm here to see miss sung min ah .
a visitor ?
who ?
lee go eun , she said you know her .
tell her exactly what i say .
she said that unless you brought the changed script , she won 't see you , so you should leave .
yes .
ah , hey !
- i 'm sorry . - please , stop !
i 'm sorry .
- you can 't do this !
it 's an emergency .
listen , stop ... !
here you are .
i 'm so sorry .
get out of here , now !
just one moment .
you 're quite an interesting person .
i 'm more interesting once you get to know me better .
can you give us some privacy ?
now , entertain me .
i 'm not making dramas as a charity .
yes , i know very well that all you live for is money , representative kim . oh , and also , from now on , any business about the drama should be communicated through the cp in charge .
aigoo , fancy meeting you here !
director nam woon young !
though i 'm rather late , congratulations on your promotion to director .
i suppose you are late . thanks anyway .
i see , you hate me .
why would i do that ?
you 're at the top of the food chain in the drama world .
well then , excuse me ...
long time no see .
let me give you a warning .
leave this field while i 'm still being civil .
you 're the one whose time has come to retire , chairman .
i decide my own destiny .
i can also decide your destiny .
and what are you going to decide ?
just wait .
you 'll find out soon enough .
i look forward to it .
that 's why you can 't accept it .
yes .
you know the risks involved with that decision .
why insist ?
why are you risking your job for this ? the legendary british actor alec guinness once said , " there 's no such thing as a small part .
you 're trying to school me ?
didn 't you decide to take this part after reading the original script ? you found worth and potential in the details of the script , then , you shouldn 't actively seek to ruin the potential you saw in it .
it would be bad for you yourself , too .
also ... there will be no revision of scripts .
so you can drink soju too .
what 's the result of the fight ?
i heard from pd joo that you went to see sung min ah .
there will be no revisions on scripts .
and sung min ah will attend neither the script reading session nor the production report conference tomorrow .
yes , she will attend .
why do you think so ?
because sung min ah is a professional .
professionals have infinite sense of responsibility about their work .
a profession with sense of responsibility is doing this for her own interest only ?
both a professional and an amateur , they all make a mistake .
then , an amateur blames the world , but a professional takes time in reflecting on herself / himself .
take time ... ?
that 's right .
time which an amateur like you wouldn 't dare to think about .
both a professional and an amateur , they all make a mistake .
then , an amateur blames the world , but a professional takes time in reflecting on herself / himself .
time which an amateur like you wouldn 't dare to think about .
i mean , episode 1 , don 't you think it shows it 's theme excessively ?
finally , the first day of the official schedule for the drama " morning of kyeongseong " is starting .
at 2 pm , meeting all actors and reading the scripts . at 5 pm , moving to the auditorium and having the production report conference .
from now on , everyone , remember exactly what you have to do and proceed without fail .
yes , i understand !
goo hee jae , set up the room for reading scripts by 2 pm .
manager park , check the actors as per their schedule and make calls to confirm .
ah , yes , so you 're on your way here ?
pd joo , go to the auditorium directly , and check all the details for the last time .
the main poster on the background must be placed with extreme care .
yes , reporter park !
manager han , call all reporters of media companies and portal sites , and get their anticipated questions in advance .
yes .
now , i think you should go to the reading room .
okay .
ah , and watanabe group contacted me , and told me that chairman won 't be able to come .
i see .
when would he arrive ?
it will be at 2 : 35pm .
but .. do you have to pick him up personally , chairman ?
to the airport , i can go ...
the leader of watanabe group which assets are worth of 60 billion yen ( about us $ 730 million ) is coming , so i should show some courtesy to him at least .
what is with that face ?
i made a revision on the script .
these are the revised version of episode 1 and 2 of " morning of kyeongseong . "
revision ?
why did you change your mind ?
yesterday , i went back home and took time to read them again .
and ?
i could see that .
the excessiveness of theme .
so , do these scripts not have excessive theme any longer ?
i will show the completion of theme at the last episode .
you sound pretty confident .
if i weren 't confident , i wouldn 't have even started it .
how is it ?
this rookie is pretty good .
her writing skill is quite workable .
ah ... this is not good .
what is it ?
does it make sense ?
does she have any brain or not ?
hyun min , even so , shouldn 't you read the revised script before the reading session ? hyung , in a car , why would i read it , hurting my eyes ?
i can read it when i get there .
what do you think ?
can 't you know by just smelling it ?
that this is quite something ?
what are you doing ?
you should print out the new scripts !
yes . by the way , you 're not even on episode 1 , but you came quite early .
you could 've come 1 hour late .
what was that ?
aish , with my temper , i just should 've ...
go inside first . you were so confident , but i guess you were scared after all .
yes , i was scared .
i was scared if i would lose the composure of my life .
thank you all for coming here for " morning of kyeongseong . "
now , let 's start the reading session for episode 1 and episode 2 .
well , episode 1 of " morning of kyeongseong . "
scene 1 , panorama of kyeongseong city , lively kyeongseong city is shown .
on the road , a streetcar is passing , and many pedestrians between rickshaws .
then a cut-in , " november 7th , 1938 . "
one man who walks through a crowd , it 's the main role , kim woo jin . woo jin , he looks around for a moment , then approaches to a peddler whose face is covered with a towel .
what do you think the weather of kyeongseong would be tomorrow ? he looks around for a moment , then approaches to a peddler whose face is covered with a towel . what do you think the weather of kyeongseong would be tomorrow ?
a peddler , looking around for a moment , pulls out something from the inside pocket and gives it to woo jin . woo jin , getting close his face to that peddler .
there must be one more .
the peddler , opening the towels which covered the face , is the main female role , jin hye rin .
the other one will arrive tonight .
it will come out at midnight , through the check register machine .
woo jin , after taking a moment to think something , whispers .
woo jin , after taking a moment to think something , whispers . mr. kang hyun min , it 's your turn to read .
what 's wrong with you ?
what 's wrong with me ?
when i said i wouldn 't swim in the sea , you didn 't even sniff , but now without my permission , you were totally seduced by that fox and changed all scripts .
and now what ?
what 's wrong with me ?
i can 't do with these scripts . no ,
i won 't .
director , i 'm sorry .
with this feeling , i can 't do this , either .
so , it 's finally started .
pardon ?
what do you mean ?
everytime , whenever the drama starts , this happens , the war of nerves among animals .
pardon ?
pd joo , do you know where we are ?
this is a jungle made of asphalt .
what are you doing now ?
are you asking that because you don 't know ?
lower your voice .
don 't you see those reporters ?
smile . and relax your hardened face first .
if we 're not going to use the original scripts , i won 't be able to smile comfortably .
never .
until when will you whine all the time , without thinking straight ?
do you think i 'm now whining ?
this way , please .
ah , here is colder than fukuoka .
ah , yes .
the president of the best broadcasting station in korea came himself to welcome us .
since you 're coming , of course , i should come welcome you , chairman .
thank you .
this is the president of sbc .
and this is the son of watanabe , the heir of watanabe group , mr. watanabe kenji .
ah , i see . nice to meet you .
my name is jeong ji hyun .
nice to meet you . ( in korean )
i 'm watanabe kenji .
you 're speaking korean very well .
because i have business in korea too .
please keep making investments for our future korean dramas too .
let 's go inside .
yes , this way .
so what do you want me to do ?
are you saying i should go back in ?
the production announcement is soon .
should i go out there alone ?
kang hyun min is going to come .
i trust our rep will bring him back .
so , please , come back in .
writer lee go eun , i thought i warned you already .
don 't act up .
that 's not it
this is a favor .
i guess this drama is nothing to you as if it 's a children 's play . the penalty of three times of 2 billion won you received for this drama , if you 're not going to bring that 6 billion won back , go back to that room immediately .
i didn 't say i wouldn 't play for this drama .
i said i can 't do it with that revised script .
why don 't you go back when i say nicely ?
why ?
will you punch me otherwise ?
what are you doing ?
i can make it even worse ! using your perfectly fine mother to cover up your dui case , should i spill it all out that it 's all fake ? leave if you can , and i will tell people everything in that press conference .
are you saying you will kill both of us ?
whether dying now or dying slowly after public humilation , it 's all same to me .
don 't lie to me .
do you think i will fall for that bluff ?
i don 't care if you believe it or not . i have nothing to fear any longer . choose whether we die together , or live together .
soon , the production report conference for drama " morning of kyeongseong " will be started .
please turn off your cell phones for a moment .
have a good time , ma 'am .
thank you .
thanks to go eun , i 'm having a chance to see this kind of show .
by the way , why is she wearing black sunglasses indoors ?
with that , can you see properly ?
is this young wench deaf ?
i guess she 's totally fine .
kang hyun min stormed out during the reading session .
kang hyun min ?
kang hyun min ?
why ... ? did he run away ?
why ?
-yes .
why ?
he said he wouldn 't play for the revised script .
you punk ... !
you should 've held even his pants to stop him !
right now , the press conference is getting ready to begin .
what about sung min ah ?
she also said she would leave , but writer lee is holding on to her .
where is the mc .... ?
now , the production report conference for " morning of kyeongseong " will be started .
hello , everyone . i 'm your host , lee il hwan .
this is driving me crazy
okay , then let me introduce to you the two stars appearing in " morning of kyeongseong , " kang hyun min , sung min ah , and also director goo .
let 's bring them in .
hey , what are you doing ?
quickly go and find out what 's going on .
yes
what a comedy this is ... well , i guess they are having a moment to give us more dramatic effect . please wait for a moment .
well , the male lead actor , the female lead actress and director , would you please come out ?
i 'm going crazy ..... because of the script reading session which was planned before this conference , i 'm afraid the schedule has been a little bit delayed .
please wait a moment longer
they say that kang hyun min might not attend this conference because of some urgent issue .
i 'm sorry
i 'm afraid i will have to leave first .
yes
we 'd better get going , too .
kang hyun min 's not arrived yet ?
yes .
what do we do ?
what else is there to do ?
we need to go in there at least .
well , let 's go in .
going in without the protagonist ?
i 'm sorry , director . i came a bit late .
as much time as you took , you just make the food tasty ..
what about the representative ?
well , the situation in there didn 't seem good . but are you okay to be here , doing nothing ?
what brought you here ?
well , this isn 't a place i can 't come , you know .
oh , introduce yourself to him . this is kenji , the new ceo of watanabe group .
i 'm kenji , the son of watanabe hiroshi .
then ... the chairman is ...
and as the new chairman of watanabe group , i 'm telling you , that all investment to world production and anthony kim will be withdrawn as of now .
and 3.4 billion won previously given for the partial investment must be returned within this month .
episode 9 battle of red cliffs it seems the situation in there wasn 't good . but is it okay for you to be here , doing nothing ?
what brought you here ? well , this isn 't a place i can 't come , as you know . oh , introduce yourself to him .
this is kenji , the new ceo of watanabe group . i 'm kenji , the son of watanabe hiroshi . then ... the chairman is ...
his illness has gotten more serious , so he gave all management rights to me .
and as the new ceo of watanabe group , i 'm telling you ... that all investments to world production and anthony kim ... will be withdrawn as of now .
and the 3.4 billion won previously given for the partial investment ... must be returned within this month .
that is not possible .
if all the management rights were passed on to you , so would have the investment contracts as well .
how can you ask for the 3.4 billion back ?
i believe that the starting date for shooting is today on the contract .
i am making a reasonable request based on a breach of the contract .
however , chairman watanabe and i had a verbal agreement on it !
a business man makes promises by signing and proves with documents .
and also , anthony , let me tell you again ...
i am the chairman now .
i 'll excuse myself .
oh , yes .
didn 't i tell you before ?
that i determine your fate as well . no matter how much you wish for it ,
i 'm not going down this easily .
well , it 's not going to be easy .
i wish you good luck .
stay strong ...
sunbaenim .
you two , i don 't want any more tension like this after today .
such tension needs to be while you 're on camera , not out of it .
okay , let 's go in .
what going on ?
-just stay still .
really ?
they are here now .
yes , everyone , you waited long enough .
the " morning in kyeongseong " actors , kang hyun min and sung min ah .
this way .
well then , please give a big round of applause .. .. for the two lead actors and the director of ' morning in kyeongseong ' .
just now , what were they talking about ?
withdrawing the investment .. ?
is it true that we have to return all the investment money we received ?
what did they say ? say something .
representative ...
representative !
well then , we 'll begin the photo time for the two actors .
i request the actors to please use the center of the stage .
ah , really , they look so beautiful like a newlywed couple .
please use the center of the stage .
i did tell you but the main lead of this drama is me .
i don 't think you 're acting skill can handle that .
that 's funny .
that 's what i should be saying .
please look at the front .
what is the reason you are rescinding the finances ?
i don 't have any interest in your drama .
what i am interested in .. .. is whether you can pay me back the 3.4 billion .
i can .
in case you can 't ... are you willing to give up your hand as a promise ? i can promise . but before that ,
i need to confirm if mr. watanabe also thinks the same . then give it a try .
right now , father is in korea .
he is seriously ill .
he wanted to be in korea during his final days .
he has passed away .
the chairman ... has left you a letter before passing away .
mr. anthony , i 'm sorry .
it seems that i am finally paying for all the wrongs i have committed during my life .
i can sense that i 'll be in hell soon .
i wanted to watch your drama please forgive me who left without keeping his promise .
even if chairman wasn 't able to keep his promise
i will keep that promise .
even in hell , you will get to see ' morning in kyeongseong ' .
watanabe is dead .
that 's too bad . now that the investment is cancelled for sure , there is nothing anthony can do .
it 's not over yet .
yes ?
anthony will be running around , looking for money .
we have to stop him from getting any investments .
however , it is going to be difficult to gather such a big amount in so little time .
is it really worth it to go to that length because of anthony ?
anthony , that bastard , is someone who wants to tear me down . until i see his last breath fade away with my own eyes , this war is not over !
when he said he couldn 't come to the showcase , i had no idea it was because he was ill .
who would 've ever thought he 'd pass away like that .. anyway , it 's a big hit if we have to return the investment .
out of the 3.4 billion , we 've used most of it and have only 100 million left . in other words , before this month is over , we have to find 3.3 billion ?
can 't we find another investor in time ?
given this economy , it will be tough to find a willing investor .
besides , the amount is too huge .
even if we were to take a loan , we have nothing for collateral . even if we miraculously got that much money , we have to start shooting next week ....
then what are we going to do ?
are we going to end like this ?
how can we give up like that after coming all the way here .
be strong people . we never know , some kind of miracle might happen .
that 's right .
we need a miracle .
however , miracle is not something you wait for but something you make . from now on , without wasting one breath and without looking back , we 're going to run only looking ahead .
commence our meeting .
yes .
in reality , getting an investment in a short period of time is not easy .
but we can try to get a loan from banks putting our drama as a collateral .
how much money is left in our account ?
we have about 120 million won . ( us $ 120,000 )
good , with that money , make sure the first shooting is to be prepared without any trouble .
but to return the fund on time , it would be better not to use that money ...
no , the first shooting should be successful no matter what . rather than waiting for a slow death next to an oasis which is drying up , we should run to the end of the horizon with all our strength left .
does everyone understand ?
yes .
does everyone understand ?
yes .
good . team leader park , arrange meetings with our main banks .
and let 's contact other financial companies , one by one , too .
if we can get from three companies , the amount of each loan can be reduced , so the possibility ( to get the loan ) would be greater .
yes , i understand .
pd joo , manager han and hee jae , you guys divide the works and prepare the shooting perfectly .
yes . well then , from now on , run to the end of the horizon as fast as we can and escape from this desert !
yes .
do you want to be in a situation later with only sending a one page script ?
what are you doing not getting on with your writing ?
yes , representative .
i 've made a list of minor financial companies which we might be able to get some loans .
those are located within seoul or near seoul .
these three seem mostly workable .
call them and schedule an appointment .
joo pd , come here and look at this .
yes .
take a look at this .
it 's 14,293,000 won .
it 's way over the budget .
please put this back .
anthony has a lot of money .
what about this ?
camera 1 will be placed over there in a long shot .
camera 2 on the boat , and camera 3 will film kang hyun min jumping in the water in a full shot .
what do you think ?
yes , i think that would be good .
let 's go .
yes . your air-date is also fixed , and the lead actor and actress are top stars .
as long as you meet our conditions , i don 't think it would be difficult .
thank you very much .
then we will prepare all the necessary documents today and come back tomorrow .
if you could please wait for a while .
yes , head director .
yes ?
yes .
i understand .
well this ..
i don 't know how to tell you .
i 'm afraid that for this case , we won 't be able to give you the loan .
why are you saying this suddenly ?
i 'm really sorry .
this is because of our internal problem .
what is that internal problem ?
i 'm really sorry .
please don 't ask me about the reason why .
i 'm sorry , but it would be difficult .
this drama has sung min ah and kang hyun min as main actors .
its air date is also set now .
i 'm sorry .
it 's because our branch 's situation isn 't great now .
i 'm sorry , but it will be hard for us .
i 'm sorry , but it will be difficult for us .
please look over it one more time .
i am sorry .
i 'm sorry .
the higher-ups aren 't comfortable .
please understand our situation too .
well , i think i 'm always asking you a difficult favor every time , president ( of a bank ) .
right , why don 't we go for a rounding ( golf ) some time soon ?
ah , yes .
yes , yes .
i understand .
what is the reason that you suddenly say it won 't work ?
we got it ordered from the boss , so we can 't do anything about it .
the boss ?
the boss ? i 'm really sorry .
yes , pd joo .
representative , we have a problem .
the ship that we rented wasn 't arriving , so i checked it up .
they are saying that they can 't send us the ship if we don 't pay twice of what we made the contract .
what ?
twice ?
yes .
if that happens , it will be way over our fund that we planned .
what should we do ?
as you know , the money is a little ...
hey crazy dog !
we at least need a ship to put the computer graphic on or whatever .
are you doing this because you don 't want to spend the money ?
i 'm really sorry director .
part of our investment was cut off .
what ?
the investment ?
yes , however it will be resolved soon .
please trust me .
sung min ah . seong min ah .
seong min ah .
seong min ah . seong min ah .
seong min ah .
seong min ah .
seong min ah . seong min ah .
seong min ah .
again .
again .
again !
still seong min ah !
does this make 's sense
she said she would write it for me !
kang hyun min !
hey , what 's the score until now ?
37 to 38 .
seong min ah is leading by a lot .
oh my god !
jesus christ
seong min ah , that fox-like woman stole away all my scenes !
hyung , with this time , you better memorize an extra line of the new script ...
what did you say , you punk ?
do you think i could concentrate on the script now ?
kwang soo !
but still , why hasn 't the shooting started yet ?
i need to go and check .
why is the shooting taking so long to start ?
min ah , we have a problem .
the investment from japan is cut off .
what is going on ?
nothing serious .
they said there was a problem with the investor .
it seems we have some problems but they will be solved soon .
you know how anthony , despite being a dog , is good at handling these things well , don 't get too depressed , let 's call it a day .
as you had instructed , i made it so that the rented ship won 't come to them , but is it really necessary to go to this length when anthony 's money has already dried up ?
the broadcasting network needs to know that anthony has lost the investment .
that way , his last desperate efforts will get even more gruesome .
so , how are things going then ?
we 're currently looking into new investors so please don 't worry about it . the broadcasting license fee of 300 million per episode , we 'll pay the first episode 's in advance .
thank you , head director .
however , this is how far i can be of help .
you have to take care of the finances as soon as possible .
if anything goes wrong , the board of directors will have an uproar .
an uproar ?
they 'll want to sue you for failing to fill the broadcasting slot .
[ sung min ah ]
it 's me .
min ah .
yes .
i heard that you are having some difficulties
i 'll solve it .
don 't worry too much .
let 's talk later .
oppa .
do you remember what we talked about some time before ?
the thing we talked about during christmas at my place ?
let 's meet now .
prepare well for the shooting .
that 's how you can help me at the moment .
-oppa
- yes ?
later , after a long time .
once i become a famous top star , if i become someone who can help you , someone who 's strong and powerful ...
once you become one ?
when that time comes , will you accept my help ?
sure .
we 'll do that i guess .
really ?
but something like that won 't happen .
there 's a lot that you still don 't know about me .
like what type of person i am .
unnie .
yes ?
what ?
contact representative oh and tell him i have to see him .
min ah . you- right now .
pd joo , get the car ready .
we 're going to myeongdong .
what ?
no . you can 't , representative .
no , i know we 're desperate , but to take a private loan ...
move .
we can 't .
the annual interest rate is 200 % !
this is practically kicking the bucket yourself !
i 'm with him .
even if our drama were to succeed .. no , even before that , we 'll all die !
i agree with them , representative .
last time you did that , the company went bankrupt , you even lost your house !
the only hope we have left is chairman jang of myeongdong .
representative , i am done revising episodes 3 and 4 ...
what 's wrong with him ? all our loan applications were rejected , so now he 's going to get a private loan .
private loan ?
yes . then . after all you 've been through , you haven 't had enough and are still doing dramas ?
it 's a drama with a set broadcasting schedule and top stars as leading actors .
the documents included are a copy of the broadcasting slot certificate and an amotization schedule .
even still , you 've come to me because you didn 't get any investment .
how much ?
i need three or four big ones .
you need 3.4 billion ?
yes .
and the collateral ?
my hand that will lead this drama to success is the collateral .
please help .
anthony . your hand ... no , your body ,
bring me a real collateral .
chairman ... secretary choi , take him away !
chairman , i beg you !
i can even sell all my internal organs !
if i could give you all my scalp , i 'd gladly skin my head .
i could serve you as a slave the rest of my life , chairman !
please , i beg you .
just this once !
chairman ! after losing everything , coming to me again and begging like that , you 're the first . i don 't know how much this drama means to you , just give up !
chairman ...
you know what 's crueler than money ?
human ambition . if you don 't want to ruin your life , start by throwing that away .
chairman !
chairman , please help me !
chairman !
don 't kick me out like this ! please , chairman !
chairman !
please help me , chairman !
chairman , don 't kick me out !
chairman !
i beg you , chairman !
i don 't know how much this drama means to you , just give up !
you know what 's crueler than money ?
human ambition .
if you don 't want to ruin your life . start by throwing that away .
who hasn 't turned in the school support fee yet ?
come out !
you must turn them in by tomorrow !
got it ?
yes !
good !
if you can bring the fee by tomorrow , you may go back to your seat .
what 's with you ?
you aren 't going to bring it tomorrow ?
you 'll be hit until you answer me that you 'll bring it .
you got it ?
answer !
you won 't even if i do this ?
you think you 're so tough ?
answer me !
why are you so late ?
you 're hungry , right ?
come and eat .
i ate already .
why do we live so poor ?
why ?
did something happen at school ?
tell me , why are we so poor ?
!
something happened at school ?
i 'm not going to live like you mom .
i 'm going to earn money like crazy , and eat meat until my stomach bursts .
i 'll become a big shot that rides his own car !
i 'm going to make money even if i die !
even if i die !
i 'm impressed that you 've lasted for 3 years in this shabby office . that you 'd go to such lengths to make sure i 'm ruined ,
i had no idea , chairman . you didn 't even hesitate staining your own noble hands , why are you so intent on crushing me ?
that 's because i know the mettle of your being more than anybody else .
you resemble me a lot .
that 's why i specially took a liking to you . even so , you deserted me 3 years ago , and that wasn 't enough ? even so , you deserted me 3 years ago , and that wasn 't enough ?
what exactly is it that you want ?
leave ' morning in kyeongseong ' to me .
i 'll give you .5 billion in return .
i 'll also throw in the repayment of the 3.4 billion of watanabe investment .
how about it ?
i think that 's enough compensation for all the work you 've put into it so far .
why ?
why are you willing to go so far in order to get ' morning in kyeongseong ' ?
you think my goal is to produce just one petty little drama like that ?
i want something much bigger .
although i guess the one who sowed the seed of my big ambition doesn 't remember .
give it a good thought . whether to waste your life in jail with a huge debt crushing your shoulders , or to live an ordinary life with half a billion won .
are you going to the chairman of empire ?
go .
go take that money .
i 'll also drop ' morning in kyeongseong ' .
isn 't it alright as long as we can start working on the next project ?
we 've made it thus far , we can try again .
it should be alright if i write another great piece .
i 'm sorry .
who is it ?
i 'm here to meet the chairman .
that 's right .
have you come to a decision ?
yes .
'morning in kyeongseong ' ... .. i cannot leave it in your hands .
you should know the best that you only have one week to return the investment .
yes , i 'm well aware of that .
however , i 'd rather die than hand over that project to you .
you 're going for a heroic suicide ?
i 'll leave it up to the gods .
who knows ?
you , chairman , could be in cao cao 's shoes , running away from the sea of red flames at the red cliff . [ romance of three kingdoms reference ] still , in the end , it was cao cao who conquered the world .
do you think i will lose ?
what are you doing ?
don 't you know that for a writer , good health is money and time is money ?
what 's going to happen with the script if you get a cold ?
why are you outside ?
i decided to fight .
is it possible for us to win ?
what is it at this late hour ?
was it your doing , representative ?
what ?
the cancellation of the investment of " morning in kyeongseong . " min ah , i know about your feelings for anthony , but that anthony is totally ruined now .
just forget about him .
why do you hate him so much ?
i 'll tell you this at least .
this time , it was the chairman himself who did it .
what is this ?
we 've saved up some of our wages you 'd paid us so far .
we know it 's nowhere near the repayment amount , but ... writer lee made the most contribution , by the way .
the 20 million you gave me for the script and some of my personal savings .
it 's quite a bit . use it for " morning in kyeongseong . "
representative , be strong !
please be strong !
representative .
like that would make him strong !
the director 's fee you gave me .
you can pay the interest with the next drama .
director and everybody , listen to me carefully .
do you think i 'll be grateful with this ?
please , just make sure you can look after your own selves first .
did i hear that right ?
don 't worry about it .
a person cannot change that easily after all .
so you 're asking me to lend you money ? yes , to tell you the truth , of the 3.4 billion of the investment , more than half went into your payment , mr. kang hyun min .
so , if you could lend the company about half ..
half ?
then , 1 billion ?
so , are you asking me to pull out 1 billion ?
well , it doesn 't exactly have to be 1 billion , but whatever you could chip in ...
stop !
stop !
why should i ?
why should i part with my own blood money ? !
tell me !
our drama is at a crisis right now . we just need to overcome this moment of hardship , so everybody should join our efforts .
the representative is running around looking for funding by himself .
he may not show it , but he 's going through hell right now .
but then , why are you here to talk about this ?
yes ?
by any chance , do you like anthony ?
what ?
no , i mean , it 's anthony who 's suffering with no money .
why are you here looking for money .
isn 't that strange ?
my drama is about to be wrecked , is that so strange ?
besides , if we don 't secure enough funds , we may never get to see " morning in kyeongseong " ever !
honestly , " morning in kyeongseong " started with you , mr. kang hyun min .
i 'm aware that 1 billion is not an amount that one can easily lent .
however , you , mr. kang hyun min , are like a landmark of this drama .
as the protagonist of the drama , if you have any affection towards " morning in kyeongseong ... "
i beg you .
why is he like that ?
did he really start reading a book and fell asleep ?
it 's not like that .
he 's been like that for a while .
kwang soo .
what do you think ?
yes ?
about lending anthony 1 billion .
hyung , are you telling me you 've been thinking about that till now .
are you really thinking of lending the money ?
i 'm the landmarking of this work , so i should atleast think about these things .
landmarking ?
it 's landmark .
hyung , call anthony .
tell him that i 'll help him . that 1 billion won , i 'm depositing it soon .
you ?
1 billion ?
i 'm also going to try living a little differently .
looked like they didn 't have much time , so call him now .
that i 'm sending it soon .
i 'm really calling .
hurry .
yes , representative choi .
representative kim ?
listen , our hyun min has made a big decision for " morning in kyeongseong . "
hyun min made a big decision of what ?
since you were going through a lot of trouble because of the repayment of the investment ... so our hyun min is thinking about 1 billion ... since he 's in lots of trouble , let him just get buried in trouble !
i can 't do this , hyung , this money means so much to me !
no , no .
i can 't .
that 's what i thought .
you would never help anybody with 1 billion !
hey , darn that bastard !
hello representative kim ? yes , representative choi , tell hyun min , that he should make a big decision about getting ready to swim in the ocean .
the call wasn 't to lend money but to ask about the swimming in the sea scene ?
yes , it 's me .
i know you 're busy but come out for a while .
the same cafe where we used to go often .
i 'll wait until you get here .
who was it ?
what 's the matter ?
i 'm going to run an errand , prepare a list of potential investors outside of the capital .
yes .
see you later .
hyung , are you crazy ?
you told me to call him !
usually , you do things at the speed of a snail .
why were you so fast this time ?
you told me to hurry !
will you die if i tell you to die ?
what ?
that was 1 billion won of money !
are you doing whatever you want because it is not your money ?
huh ?
do you know it 's been 5 years ?
to be back here where you broke up with me so heartlessly .
that was 5 years ago .
i 'm sorry but i 'm a little busy .
can we just talk about business ?
what will happen if i abandon you now ?
i 'm asking what will happen if i leave this project .
did you call me to tell me you 're done ?
no . so that i won 't leave this project , accept this money .
all i 've got that is available right now is just half a billion .
for interest , i would like to receive your heart .
i guess it would still be difficult .
your dream , i hope you can make it come true . turn around world production into a world class production company like 20th century fox .
world class 20th century fox ... ?
that 's right .
your dream when you worked at empire 5 years ago .
here , this is the place .
we 're going to build the largest filming studio in asia .
[ 5 years ago ]
all the fans of korean dramas from japan , china , other asian countries , plus more fans from over 60 different countries will be drawn by it .
once we can build a theme park so that it can serve as a tourist attraction in addition to a filming studio , the profits we 're currently making from dramas won 't even compare .
the catch is , we need a masterpiece that can do it .
could you take charge and do it ?
if you 'd put me in charge , i 'm going to turn this empire into the 20th century fox of dramas !
i want something much bigger .
although i guess the one who sowed the seed of my big ambition doesn 't remember .
so it was that .
thank you .
i 'll use the money well .
you 're a real big help .
thank you . once part of the studio is finished , let 's use it for filming " morning in kyeongseong . "
then , the land that was worth 5k won per 35 sq ft will increase its value by 5000 % in no time !
purchase this land no matter the cost !
yes .
so , you came here because you 're interested in my land ?
i 'm interested in the whole lot of 143k sq ft that you have .
for over 10 years , nobody has ever shown interest in it .
you must have quite a fortune for someone so young .
but i won 't be buying it .
what does that mean ?
in a few days , somebody else will come , wanting to buy your land .
he will want to speed up the deal , offering a slightly higher price than the market .
however , you should never agree to a contract .
get lost .
who do you think you 're trying to fool ?
i 've seen tons of scammers like you in my life !
i 'm sure you have seen many scammers like me .
however , you never know .
so what ? if you would believe me , you can make billions without even lifting a finger from where you are sitting .
get lost !
i 'll wait for your call .
we can 't afford to simply wait anymore .
we need to switch to a different production company as soon as possible .
thinks very carefully .
if we don 't do well , we will be removed from our places .
i decided to fight .
is it possible for us to win ?
yes ?
it 's me .
hello .
like you said , somebody came to see me .
he offered more than the market price , wanting to buy the whole 143k sq ft .
so what did you do ?
for now , i sent them back .
you did well .
so now , tell me what you want .
what i want is half of the profit you will make .
invest that money in me .
that is my condition .
( investment ? )
will you believe me , and go along with my plan ? i 've even offered to double the market price , yet the land owner is being stubborn .
he 's stubborn ?
yes .
he says he has no thought of selling the land .
this won 't do .
i 'll have to meet him in person .
seemed like he is greatly attached to the land his father passed on to him .
it was quite a challenge to even get him to come here , with his age and all .
land passed onto him by his father , huh ?
yes .
that seems to be why he doesn 't want to sell at all .
the old live in the past and are buried in the past .
even so , the old have a future , too .
the future of the old ... ?
it 's their children .
the future of the old is the seeds they have sown , their children .
like that , even as the old die away , they live the future through their seeds .
i don 't understand what you 're trying to say .
there 's nothing to think so hard about .
in short , the answer is money .
the inheritance of the past that can guarantee a bright future for the children .
nice to meet you .
please take a seat .
i don 't think that 's needed .
just go ahead and talk .
what is the reason that you wanted to see me ?
then , i am sure that he will get to the point right away .
i will pay the triple .
don 't accept that either . the fact that i have absolutely no thought of selling my land , i thought you were well aware of that .
well , then .
five times ...
i 'll give you five times as much .
please take a seat .
we prepared the contract .
with the condition that we will pay all the amount until noon by tomorrow .
yes ?
i just came back home after completing the contract .
everything happened as you predicted .
i will be receiving the money at the noon tomorrow .
yes .
i will meet you with the investment contract tomorrow .
kyeongsung 'smorning :
investmentcontract
what is it ?
president kenji wants to see you .
i understand .
please let him know that i will see him within today .
president ordered us to bring you .
i am on my way to get the money to return to president .
i 'm sorry but can you move aside .
say that in front of the chairman .
we only carry out his orders .
i understand .
hey , get him !
get him !
chase him !
get him !
that way !
can 't you think about it one more time ?
not just one but i thought about this 10 times .
put yourself in my shoe . if you had 10 billion , put yourself in my shoe .
if you had 10 billion , could you give it away easily ?
i 'm not asking you to give it but lend it .
i 've also had a really hard time getting till here .
honestly , even if i give away 10 billions ( $ 1 million ) , it will not be resolved .
it 's just like pumping water into a broken crock .
how do you know if the crock is broken or not ?
then call anthony right now and confirm it .
if anthony could find a single penny , i 'll change my mind then .
hello ?
representative ?
representative ?
hello ?
representative ?
lee go eun , listen carefully to what i say from now on .
if you walk into an alley back of our company building , there will be an iron gate at the dead end .
what is that about ?
i don 't have time to explain in detail .
behind that gate , there is my bag .
a bag with the contract , which we need in order to get the investment .
if you can 't contact me afterwards , that means something happened to me .
then you will have to find the investor with that bag .
you understand what i 'm saying right ?
yes .
but what 's wrong ?
shouldn 't we contact the police ?
no , it will be too late by then .
just do what i tell you .
before noon today , you must go and see the investor . then he will take care of the rest .
hello ?
hello !
representative .
rep ...
what is it ?
what happened ?
come with me right now .
hurry .
huh ?
hurry .
contractofbuyingand sellingland . about the land , i have sent the money .
you 've worked hard .
but do you think anthony will easily give up on the piece easily ?
it has nothing to do with anthony 's will now . once tonight is over ,
'morning in kyeongseong ' ... .. is ours .
have you come back to your senses ?
what are you thinking of doing capturing me ?
if you let me go right now , i can bring you back the money right away .
how do i believe in those words ?
do you have an official document that you could prove it ?
if you don 't believe in me , it 's okay if you come together with me .
rather than that , easily ... getting the money back ...
i believe there is a certain way to do it .
" morning of kyeongsang ... "
leave it to the empire .
at the end , is it this ? with the same purpose as empire , are you going to threaten me so that you can give my work away to empire ?
all i need is getting my money .
that 's why please make your decision .
it 's whether by giving them " kyeongsung 's morning , " paying me back , or ... give me your hand as you promised .
kingofdramas preview episode 10 whereintheworldisthatgateandthebag ?
!
we don 't have no time .
no !
no !
one more time hyun min .
one more time for the last time , okay ?
cut !
you can 't be shaking like that .
cut !
whatisthatpoopydog ?
you were really cool today .
was i really that cool ?
like brad pitt ?
representative !
representative !
look here , miss lee go eun .
it 'sdefinitelywrongtoplagiarizeandstealsomeone else 'swork .
whatdoyoumeanbystealing ?
iamnotthatkind ofwriterwhowouldplagiarizeinorderto succeed .
iwillneverallowyour dramatobeaired .
representativekim , yourstrongwill this time ... isitbecauseyou trustwriterleego eun ?
ithoughtiknewalot about you , but ... everyonechanges .
isthatchangemadebecauseofwriter leegoeun ?
areyoutellingmetoreviseallofthisrightnow ?
ifyoudon 'twanttobe known asanwriterwhoplagiarize .
episode 10 fatedlovers stop ! stop right there !
what is this about ? i don 't have time to explain in detail . just do what i tell you .
before noon today , you must go and see the investor . then they 'll take care of the rest . hello ?
hello ?
representative !
" morning in kyeongseong ... "
leave it to empire .
at the end , is it this ? with the same purpose as empire , are you going to threaten me so that you can give my work away to empire ?
all i need is getting my money .
that 's why please make your decision . it 's whether by giving them " morning in kyeongseong , " paying me back , or giving me your hand as you promised .
the promised deadline is tonight at midnight .
as long as you get the money by then , isn 't it good ?
midnight ?
someone will come bring me the money by 12 ?
if only you decide to wait until then .
well , since a promise is a promise . i guess i 'll wait .
until 12 , you have around 3 hours and 10 minutes . before that , someone needs to do it for sure .
so where is this gate and this bag ?
is it even true that if we find the bag , the money can be returned ?
just shush and focus on looking !
but i 'm looking for it though .
it 's just that i don 't see it !
gate , gate ... excuse me , aren 't you hyun min oppa ?
you think i 'm not ?
nice to meet you !
- how old are you ?
- in 12th grade !
you should be studying then !
aren 't you cold ?
guys , is there a gated dead end nearby ? there is one if you enter this way .
where ?
where ?
over here hyun min oppa .
oh , here ?
thanks .
what 's that ?
okay .
didn 't you say we were fine just finding the bag ?
hurry !
we don 't have any time .
the representative said that we have to get this taken care of before midnight no matter what .
anthony ...
finally your end is here .
you worked hard .
is this the right place ?
who is it ?
i 'm sorry for intruding this late .
i 'm sorry for intruding this late . this is mr. choi pil seong 's house right ?
yes it is , but he 's not here at the moment .
where did he go ?
he went to meet his friends .
he said he would be drinking . he might be a little late .
where is that place ?
why ?
it 's an emergency .
we need to see him as soon as possible .
do you have to go this far ?
it was your late father 's wish to have this drama made .
father 's already in the past .
what i 'm interested in is the present and the future .
it 's better you leave this house too .
i dont need any of that past .
what is the matter ?
i 'm here to meet mr. choi pil seong .
are you one of his party ?
no , it 's not that .
it 's really urgent . i need to see him as soon as possible .
wait a second .
i 'm saying i don 't have any time !
writer lee .
hello i 'm kang hyun min .
omo !
mr. kang hyun min .
this is really urgent .
we can meet mr. choi pil seong , right ?
i 'm sorry to say but your time 's up .
hold on a second . please wait a little more .
let 's start .
life is so full of surprises !
who 'd have thought that i 'd hit such a jackpot after so many years of drought ?
that 's what i 'm saying .
how much did you sell that land for ?
shush ! everybody says that you now have the money saved even for your great-grandchildren .
i get it . i get it .
since it 's my treat today , drink as much as you want .
who 's elder choi phil seong ?
it 's me .
what 's the matter ?
i 'm writer lee go eun sent by anthony .
stop .
hold on a second .
stop !
no !
no !
hold on a second .
i 'm ' morning in kyeongseong 's ' writer lee go eun .
what about it ?
i 've just returned the investment fund of 3.4 billion won to you .
returned the investment fund ?
mr. anthony , you 're one lucky person .
since you kept your promise , you 're free now .
yes , mr. kenji .
i was in the middle of waiting for your call .
yes ?
what is that about ?
let 's say that the promise between you and me was never made .
what are you trying to say ?
as promised , anthony repayed the investment money .
that 's not possible .
where are you at the moment mr. kenji .
i 'll be there .
you don 't need to come here .
anthony .
yes it 's me , anthony .
what kind of trick did you use ?
you shouldn 't speak like that to someone you helped .
what ?
!
i was able to resolve this thanks to you who purchased choi pil seong 's useless land for 5 times more money than it 's worth .
thank you very much .
i 'll make sure the money is used without waste .
anthony !
as you wanted , you became cao cao .
unfortunately , you fell off from the red cliff to the sea of fire , though . whatever it is , congratulations .
anthony !
like this , our problem is over .
we won 't need to see each other again .
anthony !
how dare you take my money ! and mock me ?
shit !
thank you very much for keeping your promise .
what have i done here ?
bankers had to do all the work at this late hour .
from now on our drama- what was it again ?
'morning in kyeongseong ' .
oh right , ' morning in kyeongseong . ' i 'm leaving it to you .
don 't worry about it since korea 's best top stars are in it .
that 's right !
i 'll also be expecting from the top star .
yes , of course .
how was i ?
wasn 't i quite useful ?
you 're very useful for your skill to torture me by making me wait .
yes ?
you 've tortured me until the very end , but now are you saying you were useful ?
ah , the old saying is never wrong .
" you saved a drowning person , but then that person demands you to bring his bundle too . "
if you 're going to save a drowning person , of course , you should save his bundle too !
i guess you 're fine since you 're all pompous like before .
see you tomorrow .
i think i should also say my last farewell .
ms. akiko , what are you going to do from now on ?
i 'll return back to japan and live like a new person . even though the chairman has left , please make a really good drama .
i will also watch it .
why did you hang up without talking about me ?
well , while i was talking to him ... the car taken was mine , the one driving is me and the bag was found because of me .
how big my contribution was !
you can 't just ignore it !
oh come on , i 'll tell him about it later .
you definitely have to put in the word how big my help was .
if i say it to him myself , it doesn 't look good .
so writer lee , you should make sure to mention it to him , got it ?
yes .
we 're almost there .
please turn right here .
turn right .
you 've tortured me until the very end , but now are you saying you were useful ?
if you 're going to save a drowning person , of course you should save his bundle too !
what were you thinking about that you are giggling like that ?
so , you came back alive without being hurt .
thanks to someone .
thanks to someone who was so slow , i was shit-scared , indeed .
you must have been really scared . ( in informal speach )
don 't talk to me without honorifics .
i was talking to myself right now .
do i have to use polite form even when i 'm talking to myself ?
but ... why did you come ?
thank you .
i came here to say that .
representative
if you 're that grateful , do you want to get some beer ?
i don 't like that .
ready ?
action !
how is it ?
how do you feel after watching the filming of the drama you invested in ? the cruise scene you guys filmed in the morning was spectacular too , but the passion of that handsome actor . wow !
this is awesome !
wow !
cut !
towel !
director !
let 's go one more time hyun min .
this is already the 4th time .
can 't you separately film me walking out of the water ?
this scene 's key point is the main role kim woo jin who has went through all difficulties and survived from the rough sea !
if we use cuts , it won 't have the same effect
let 's go for more realistic in one shot .
one more for the last time okay ?
that 's right .
you can do it since you 're the best actor .
alright !
let 's go one more time .
from the point kim woo jin swims !
cut !
you can 't be shaking like that !
again !
cut !
what 's with that dog !
you son of a b * tch !
hey , aren 't you going to control this mutt ?
because of the dog-
cut !
again !
director .
cut !
okay !
it 's a wrap !
hyun min !
you were awesome !
let 's all give a big round of applause for kang hyun min .
youweregreat !
goodwork !
are you alright hyung ?
to the car , to the car , hurry .
put on the heater .
heater !
heater !
just watching this is making me cold .
he should experience more hardships .
even with that , he won 't be able to become a real actor , though .
i guess so ...
representative !
the chairman is coming this way .
what ?
the chairman ?
yes .
he 's on his way with a team of empire 's lawyers .
legal team ... ?
the chairman is here .
you 're here . from now on , while anthony had been working as the c.e.o. of empire production for 7 years , the lobbying fund , dereliction of duty or embazzlement he committed , no matter what it is , find anything so that we can prepare to crush him !
yes ? find any documents about anthony , even if it 's a penny or a single receipt , and hand them over to our legal team ! but , considering anthony 's personality ,
there isn 't ?
if there isnt , then isn 't it your job to make one ?
he 's the bastard who made me throw away my money , 8 billion won in the air .
listen well everybody . if you want to keep eating and living with my money , find it no matter what !
no matter what !
kwang soo .
did you really turn up the heater to the highest ?
yes , hyung .
are you okay ?
do i look okay ?
hurry up and shut the door . the cold wind is blowing in .
this is warm coffee .
this will make you feel a little warmer .
that 's why i told you to cut out this scene from the script .
but after coming here and seeing the shoot , i think keeping it was the right decision . i 'm in this state now , but how can you say that ?
you looked so awesome today , awesome enough to make all the staff out there fall for you .
was i that cool ?
of course , you were the best !
like brad pitt ?
yes . like brad pitt .
inevitable , huh ?
like brad pitt ?
it 's cold .
it 's been a long time ... since the two of us came to the beach like this .
true .
but ... why did you want to see me ?
to return this .
i 'm thankful but everything is solved .
just keep it .
you know it well , don 't you ?
that we can never know what might happen anywhere , any how .
something like that won 't happen but if it does , i 'll take it . so keep it .
how does it feel having your 3-year old work experiencing its first shoot ?
i don 't feel anything .
just feel like going back to my regular routine ?
why ?
other people may not notice , but you can 't fool my eyes .
representative , you are extremely excited with anticipation right now .
me ?
representative , you might be the person with the smallest understanding of oneself in the world .
because it has become your habit to hide your feelings and forget about yourself .
you 're talking as if you know a lot about me .
is there anything more i need to know ? i 'm sorry but erase all the memories you 've had with me .
since i 've already erased mine a long time ago .
i 'm telling you again as the director of the drama department of sbc . all actions you 're making now , please stop them immediately .
so , does that mean that you 're supporting anthony more , not me ?
no .
it 's because " morning of kyeongseong " is also my drama .
yes ?
director , the filming crew finished today 's shooting and they are about to leave for seoul now .
by the way , i was wondering if you are going to attend tonight 's team dinner .
of course , i should go to that .
yes . i understand .
- what are you doing ?
- oh my god , oh my god ! you scared me to death !
being scared is your concern , but i asked what you were doing . when i 'm feeling really good or when i 'm feeling down , i 'm usually doing this by myself .
if you do this , it makes you feel much fresher .
by closing your eyes like this and raising your arms up like wings and start imagining .
i 'm free and flying in the sky . underneath me
i see my work place and i also see my mother 's mackerel restaurant .
just like this after taking a long tour you come down and open your eyes .
it 's the weirdest stretch i 've ever seen in my life .
stop doing useless things and hurry up to leave .
since everyone is waiting because of you .
everyone , attention , please !
today , the head director of the sbc drama department will say something .
hello everyone . the director should have done it .
" morning of kyeongseong " finally started its first step . of course , there were many complications , but the director , actors and all staffs endured them all together , so i believe this start was possible . well , a good result is too obvious , but during that long journey for the next 4 months ,
i wish no one gets sick and everything goes well . should we make a toast ?
everyone , raise your glass , please .
if i say , " morning of kyeongseong ... "
what do you say mr. hyun min ?
let 's go with daebak .
daebak is good .
alright then , ' morning in kyeongseong ' is daebak .
'morning in kyeongseong ' !
daebak !
here , here .
definitely , korean beef is different .
these days , korean farms are having a lot of difficulties , so we should eat korean beef a lot .
what 's up with you , mr. kang hyun min , treating all the staff with korean beef ?
well , that costs nothing .
you 're really a lot different .
and , i 'm the pr ambassador of korean beef , so i know well about this kind of thing .
this place 's meat is the best !
beef will be served as much as you want , so order as much as you want !
kang hyun min seems to be a better person than what i thought before .
he even knows how to buy for the staff . this isn 't paid for with his own money . it 's a sponsorship .
what ?
even meat can be sponsored ?
wasn 't he treating us because he is the pr ambassador of korean beef ?
that 's why he gets that sponsorship .
alright everyone .
our actor , kang hyun min , is treating you huge with this clothing for staff !
well , everyone , take one !
kang hyun min !
kang hyun min !
min ah , you should have one too .
i prepared one for you !
by any chance , these are also ... ?
sponsored . after all , he 's the greatest stingy actor who never spends his own money , even a penny .
wow ! how is it ?
is your illusion about him now breaking ?
yes , you can speak now .
who did you say you were ?
you 're pretty shameless .
looking at you having so much fun after your theft .
i don 't know what you mean , but i think you should first say who you are .
i 'm jo young eun , the writer of novel " lovers of destiny . "
so what ?
your drama copied my novel .
i don 't think you don 't know about that .
i don 't know about that , but i know one thing very well .
every time when i make a drama , i get a phone call from people like you .
and whenever that happens , i say like this .
then go ahead .
stop your funny trick and get lost .
unless you want to lose your money for lawyer 's fee while trying to get a few pennies by blackmailing .
representative . what are you doing here ?
let 's go in , everyone is waiting .
alright .
hurry .
alright , i 'm going .
well then everyone , was the meat delicious ?
yes !
please go in .
representative !
representative ! representative !
representative !
everyone !
now is the moment everyone has been waiting for .
we 'll now listen to a song from world production 's representative .
i can 't do it so ask someone else .
but still , atleast one song .
that 's right representative . atleast one song .
representative !
representative ! representative !
representative !
representative !
representative !
whose theme is it ? [ a famous korean classic song " keumkang mountain we 've missed " ]
a clear and pretty mountain !
12,000 mountaintops we 've missed so much .
although they don 't say a word .
finally ...
i 'll stop till here .
what was that ?
is he upset because we laughed ?
i will change the mood .
new writer lee go eun will be singing .
pd joo ?
must we use chopsticks well to eat food ?
[ " dance with dj d.o.c " by dj d.o.c. ]
even if we don 't use chopsticks well , we can eat food well !
but when i eat food , people around me always say , " do you have any problem with this table ? "
that was suprising .
what was ?
the representative that i know wouldn 't be singing in front of people .
i guess i was wrong .
i thought i knew a lot about you .
it seems you 've changed .
everyone changes .
is that change because of lee go eun ?
i 'm sorry but you got it completely wrong .
i 'm not someone who changes because of anyone .
even for my change , i choose to change myself .
ow , my head .
miss lee go eun .
yes ?
who is it ?
ms. lee go eun , here is the registered mail .
you 're miss lee go eun , right ?
yes .
sign over here .
yes .
thank you .
ow , my head .
what is it ?
regarding to banning airing the drama " morning of kyeongseong " for plagiarizing the novel " lovers of destiny " ?
what is this ?
yes .
this is writer jo young eun .
i 'm sorry but i think i told you that i have no interest in your mere novel .
then , from now on , i think you should develop some interest in my novel .
because i 've also sent the certification of contents to writer lee go eun .
and you keep saying that i 'm blackmailing you with a silly reason ... no , let me tell you first why that is a silly blackmail .
what judges and prosecutors hate the most is this kind of plagiarism case .
all you 've got to do is just shamelessly throw your book at them for review , hoping that that will boost the sale of your book and they are stuck with reading the whole pathetic writing , and even if they do finish reading it , 99.9 % of the time it ends up being a waste of time .
i don 't think you understand what i 'm saying .
i don 't know how you got your hands on the script of " morning in kyeongseong " when it hasn 't even aired yet , but we don 't know about your book nor do we need to know about it .
what are you doing ?
this is my problem .
this is ' morning of kyeongseong 's ' writer lee go eun .
so you are lee go eun ?
let 's meet .
you don 't have to meet .
yes .
yes , i 'll see you there then .
she 's just trying to stir up controversy to sell more copies of her book .
we 'll only find that out after meeting right ?
i 'll be the one meeting her and taking care of this !
stop wasting time and just focus on writing your script .
no , this is a problem of me and my pride as a writer .
i 'll solve it myself .
you 're younger than i had thought ... and so rash .
i don 't think i deserve to hear such words .
look here , ms. lee go eun .
regardless of how much you want to get fame and success , you shouldn 't steal someone else 's work and present it as if it is yours .
can you still call yourself a writer ? stealing ? i don 't know why you would accuse me like this , but
i haven 't stolen anything . my book ' fated lovers ' was published 5 years ago .
'morning of kyeongseong ' started 6 years ago .
besides , the main storyline was finished a year before that , in 2005 .
do you have any evidence ?
your work wasn 't even registered for copyright .
don 't think you can get away with this by lying .
you 're the one being preposterous here .
i 'm the one who 's the victim here .
victim ?
admit to it when i 'm putting it nicely .
admit that you plagiarized my work .
no , i will never agree to it since it 's not the truth .
ms. lee go geun , i 'll make sure that your drama never airs .
i 'll apply for an injunction of banning the drama 's broadcast .
go deal with it . let me tell you one more time ,
i 'm not a writer that steals someone else 's work to make a name for myself .
have you read my book ?
you 'll know once you read my book .
excuse me .
i 'm looking for a novel .
what 's the title ?
fated lovers .
[ questions of plagiarism on morning in kyeongseong , a drama before airing has plagiarized ? ]
[ writer jo young eun of ' fated lovers ' wants to reveal the truth ! ]
whoa , even applying for an injunction of banning our drama broadcast ?
who 's calling the kettle black ?
i know !
our writer lee go eun would never plagiarize someone else 's work !
she wouldn 't even know that plagiarizm is spelled with a p !
how presumptuous of them !
this cho yeong eun seems like a weird writer . at any rate , more and more news articles are coming out , and if she 's already started applying for an injunction , this is getting real serious ...
- stop worrying about it .
what they want is exactly this type of attention from the ignorant masses .
so don 't concern yourself with this and do your work .
i 'll take care of it .
yes !
pd joo , come see me for while .
yes ! by the way , what exactly is that injunction of banning the drama 's broadcast ? well , when there is a controversy of plagiarism , they can make a legal request to the court to stop the drama from being aired .
then , what if it gets accepted ?
then , the drama won 't get aired at all .
the drama won 't get aired ?
but that won 't happen to us , so don 't worry .
go make some coffee now .
yeah , no need to worry . get a copy of " fated lovers " and give it to lawyer park , and also send him a copy of the drama proposal and scripts for review .
but .. there 's no way that writer lee would have plagiarized .
is it really necessary to do all that ?
we have to be ready to face them , not sit around doing nothing .
i see .
but ...
don 't you think it might be the empire 's doing ?
it 's not the empire .
this is too small of an issue for it to be an attack from them .
[ application for an injunction of banning morning in kyeongseong in progress ]
is this your doing ?
no chairman .
of course not , it had better not be you !
if you thought of stooping down to such petty tricks like this and stain my reputation , you 'd be dead , too !
it 's definitely not me chairman .
please believe me .
then , fine !
just focus on what i told you to do !
no matter what , we 've got to find some evidence that can put that bastard anthony in jail !
that 's your top priority !
yes , chairman .
alright , let 's start .
as you may already know by now , there is a plagiarism controversy about " morning in kyeongseong . "
has anyone read the ' fated lovers ' ?
i took a look at it , and it seems that it 's not something that can be overlooked .
however , given that they 're both set in the japanese colonization period , some similarities are inevitable .
some parts in the book are indeed similar , i must admit . especially the character of the female protagonist is the same , so that can be a problem for us .
the problem is what the court will decide . plagiarism cases are generally ambiguous , but if the judge decides that it really is plagiarism , then the drama will be banned from broadcasting .
if it comes to that , things will get really serious .
we have to prepare some kind of a counterplan .
who knows if writer lee go eun really did plagiarize her work ?
alright , i understand .
let me first discuss this matter with writer lee go eun .
who is it ?
who is it ?
writer lee , it 's me . director nam , i surprised you by coming here without calling you right ?
but this way , i can check on you and make sure that you 're working on your script .
can i get a cup of tea ?
yes , sure . come in .
yes .
wow , you 've done quite a bit of background research .
yes .
[ fated lovers ]
but still if you had called , i would have prepared something .
no , no need for that .
you must be the busiest person right now .
a cup of tea is just fine .
i 'll drink it well .
ahh , this is peppermint flavor .
yes .
are you doing well ?
yes .
i know what you want to tell me .
you 're here because of the plagiarism issue right ?
is it written on my face ?
it 's not me .
i really didn 't steal it .
that 's right .
you know , as one gets older , his needless worries grow bigger , too .
yes .
writer lee , you should just concentrate on writing your script , and i 'll discuss this matter with representative kim .
what do you think attorney park ? before we get to that , this writer called lee go eun is she someone trustworthy ?
why do you ask ?
i think this is going to be a tough case . the other party has hired someone with a good track record with plagiarism cases like this , lawyer jang hyun jae .
attorney jang ?
yes .
the retainer must be quite hefty .
this writer of " fated lovers "
has put her fate on the line with this lawsuit . unless you can provide some kind of a firm evidence , the injunction of banning the drama 's broadcast may be granted .
[ morning in kyeongseong , a drama before airing in a plagiarism controversy ? ] as you had asked ,
i 've brought all the accounting records of production budgets of the dramas that anthony had produced while he was working in empire .
okay .
good work .
oh , right . about that plagiarism controversy of " morning in kyeongseong , "
you didn 't have a hand in it , did you , director heo ?
i did meet with the writer and introduced lawyer choi and media reporters to her .
lawyer choi is pretty good in that area . director heo , is this the time to work on something so petty ?
were you thinking of tarnishing my reputation with such a pathetic trick ?
!
i 'm sorry .
shall i stop them , then ?
no .
just leave it . however ,
i didn 't hear about this .
understand ?
yes .
if you understand , then leave . if the reason for calling me is about the plagiarism issue with ' morning in kyeongseong , ' then don 't worry about it since i 'm taking care of it .
you know , sometimes , i envy your attitude of always making such bold statements in full confidence .
let me ask you one thing .
this time , does that firm confidence of yours come from your trust in writer lee go eun ? there is only one thing i believe in , that ' morning in kyeongseong 's ' first broadcast will be aired on november 5th .
it 's only that .
i know there should be a back-up cd with a saved copy somewhere ... ah , email .
i 'd sent it to writer jung before .
email ...
[ questions of plagiarism on morning in kyeongseong .
similarities to a 5-year old novel . ]
[ application for an injunction of banning the broadcast of " morning in kyeongseong " in progress ] writer jo young eun of " fated lovers " wants to reveal the truth !
[ the only experience she had was as an assistant writer .
i suppose she plagiarized because she had no talent . ]
[ i was gonna watch it because of min ah , but i guess not . if she can 't write , she shouldn 't be called a writer . ]
[ rookie writer ?
plagiarizer ?
] [ she shouldn 't have done it if she 's got no talent . ]
this is completely a pig 's sty !
mom !
no matter how busy you are , you should atleast clean up !
what is this mess ? that 's right .
what brings you here ?
what brings me here ...
i brought some side dishes for you .
just take a taxi .
got money to burn ?
don 't worry about me
just make sure not to skip your meals no matter how busy you are .
go eun ah ...
keep this is mind
you ... are park kang ja 's daughter despite what anyone says .
i raised you without much money and without a father , but i still put in a lot of love and care into you !
that 's why you need to make sure that you take good care of yourself and stay healthy while you work .
got it ?
yeah , mom .
oh my , the bus is here .
mom is going .
eat well and work .
alright , alright !
[ director goo ]
yes , director . writer lee , is the writing going well ? is the writing going well ?
yes , of course .
don 't pay any attention to that plagiarism thingy .
it happens quite frequently in this field .
yes .
but ... you might have to come here for a while .
you might have to come here for a while .
min ah is asking to revise the script .
it 's the scenes that we 're shooting today .
we 're shooting in the studio right now .
if you could come , i 'd really appreciate it .
yes , i understand .
excuse me , director .
can we get something to eat since i 'm really hungry .
aigoo . we cannot have our actor hungry .
alright then , we 'll take a 30 minute break .
ms. sung min ah .
judging from the underlines on your script , i guess you 're trying to cram your lines at the last minute ?
while i 'm eating , make sure you finish memorizing them .
if you have time to eat , why don 't you analyze your character more in depth ?
if you don 't want me the steal the scene .
sure , so you 're going to challenge me ? when the right opportunity comes , i 'll crush you down for sure !
the little things that annoy me !
hyung , this is bad .
what is ?
- about writer lee go eun .
because of the plagiarism controversy , there 's a lot of internet hate speech .
is it bad ?
yes .
kwang soo .
i don 't know about others but lee go eun would never do something like that .
if it was plagiarized , it was the other writer that did it !
it must be right ? if i think about it , writer lee go eun is right .
new noir with no melodrama . if we were to do something like that book , " fated lovers , " i would have had to hold , hug , and even kiss that bi * * * of sung min ah !
i think hyun min is seriously committed this time .
he 's still got a long way to go , though .
if he 's going to match sung min ah 's acting .
so now we 've just got two solitary scenes of min ah , right ?
is the shooting going well ?
what brings you here ?
i 've got to make sure that you 're not out of practice , director goo .
is that so ?
sure , watch me carefully and judge for yourself if i 'm out of practice or not .
i guess it 's break time ?
yeah , while we 're shooting , min ah said she had something to talk with writer lee .
writer lee ?
she wants some of her lines changed .
i heard that writer lee just got here .
it may take some time for you to witness my not-so-out-of-practice skills in directing .
we can wait .
you 're here .
yes .
i heard that you wanted me to adjust a few lines .
please have a sit .
ah , yes .
what 's the matter with all these lines ?
what are you talking about ?
director , it seems they forgot to turn off the mike .
no leave it .
let 's hear what they 're talking about .
we have nothing special to do anyway .
never mind . episode 1 , scene 43 , the fourth ... gwang soo , isn 't that the voice of sung min ah and writer lee go eun ?
hyung , i guess the microphone isn 't turned off .
it 's not only that .
you 're asking me to change this now ?
yes .
the lines that are underlined all need to be changed so that we can start shooting right away .
there 's no way i can act with those lines .
seriously sung min ah , don 't you think you 're over doing it ?
even though i 'm a new writer ...
it 's not that . unless you want to be branded as a plagirizer for the rest of your career , change them .
what is it that you want to say right now ?
you should know it very well .
i 'm sure you 've read the book ' fated lovers . '
looking at your expression , i guess you did read it .
how was it ? the character of the female protagonist , similar lines , is it just me who 's seeing the similarities ?
tell me , is it just me who 's seeing it ?
i saw it too .
i acknowledge the fact that there are similarities .
turn off the mic . i didn 't see it before , but were you such a shameless person from the beginning ? even though the two works are similar ,
i didn 't steal it . ' morning in kyeongseong ' is something i wrote with my own strength .
how should i believe that ?
it 's true ! there are similar lines because the settings are similar , and that 's because it 's set in the japanese colonization period ...
do you think that 's a valid excuse ?
mr. kang hyun min .
didn 't you admit it .
i heard it all because the mic was on .
writer lee
i 'm really disappointed . whatever the case , start changing these .
with these lines , as long as my name is involved , i can 't act .
you have to .
what ... did you just say ?
i 'm telling you to follow this script without trying to change it .
representative kim .
no matter what , we have to get the drama aired on the scheduled date .
plus i have one request .
don 't call out the writer and demand for any change in the script from now on .
what are you doing not working on your script ?
getting the drama aired is important , but my innocence is important to me , too .
in order to take care of the injunction on banning the broadcast , yes , both are important .
at the end , even you don 't believe me .
yes , i do . i may not believe anybody in this world ,
i may not even believe in myself sometimes , but that me believes in you .
next week on king of dramas . everybody , i am the representative of the production company , anthony kim .
this " morning in kyeongseong " that we are all working on should not become a drama of distrust .
the truth that " morning in kyeongseong " is wholly created by our writer and that it is our rightful drama , writer lee go eun and i vouch for it .
nay , we have to believe it .
and we will prove that truth .
meanwhile , we need to continue shooting " morning in kyeongseong ! "
episode 11 line of life and i may not trust anyone in the world , and sometimes i don 't trust even myself , but i , such a person like that ... trust you . but this matter will not be resolved with that .
if even you felt these two pieces similar , you must prove that you wrote " morning in kyeongseong " earlier ( than that novel ) . proving that you wrote " morning in kyeongseong " by yourself should be the top priority . with that , get acknowledged about your sincerity by other people too .
director , it 's me . ah , yes . please turn on the microphone again .
microphone ?
turn on the microphone .
everyone , i 'm anthony kim , the representative of the production company .
" morning in kyeongseong " which you guys are making now must not become a piece of distrust .
" morning in kyeongseong " is solely the creation made by our writer and us .
not only writer lee go eun but i guarantee that fact .
no , we must believe that !
and i will prove that truth .
instead , " morning of kyeongsong " must keep being filmed .
that 's all i want to say .
therefore , please act without any doubt . even so , if you still can 't trust this script , then trust me and act for that role .
to air our drama without any problem , we need some solid proof to show you wrote " morning in kyeongseong " first .
and we should submit that proof to the court by the day after tomorrow , wednesday .
that novelist said she wrote her first draft in 2006 , right ?
yes .
then , we just need to find the file which you wrote earlier than 2006 . i know that , but ...
but ? it was a long time ago , so although i looked for it everywhere , i couldn 't find it .
then , what about e-mail ?
i had , but again , since it was a long time ago , every record back then had been erased . i 've also contacted some people in that site , but he said it can 't be restored .
then , what about another computer ?
have you ever worked with another computer , not your current laptop ?
other than my laptop ?
yes , other than your laptop .
teacher jeong ? ( writer jeong ) in the laptop of writer jeong hong joo 's studio , which i 'd used when i was her assistant , there might be my file left .
hello , this is writer jeong hong joo .
what should we do ?
it seems she 's now abroad .
where is her studio now ?
what on earth are you going to do later after this ?
what do you mean ?
i 'm doing this to go in .
writer jeong will understand us too . uh , by the way , you two , are you really the owners of this house ?
yes !
of course !
this isn 't the first time my wife has done something like this .
i 'm a bit ... careless .
we have a big age gap , but how could you say i 'm your " wife " ?
honey ..
you should install a new doorlock now .
you know that , right ?
of course .
that 's right .
what are doing not looking for it ?
yes .
i found it !
no , i trust you .
i may not trust anyone in the world , and may not even trust myself ,
but i .. trust you .
see i told you ! / i
doesn 't it feel better coming out ?
i just came with you since you looked so nervous for your debut .
let 's leave after a while .
i 'm not nervous at all .
you don 't believe me ?
i don 't believe in anyone .
sometimes , i don 't trust myself either .
but there 's one thing i have the ultimate trust in .
and that is how you will be the nation 's , no the world 's top star .
don 't tell me you use those words to seduce women ?
now you seem more like a woman .
later , act with your feeling now .
it will be helpful .
it 's not here .
the file i last saved was in 2011 .
i guess everything was erased and newly saved again .
we don 't need to wait and see any longer . well , in front of the actors and staff , the writer came forward and admitted that .
even if it 's a bit late , we should prepare the replacement now .
but is it really true that writer lee admitted that herself ? since sung min ah pushed and asked her , she said that it 's true that those two pieces are similar .
that 's what i heard .
they seemed similar to each other even when i read them . i will submit these materials to the court as evidence , but with only these ,
i can 't guarantee the result .
in the worst case scenario , the injunction to prohibit the airing of the drama , will be approved .
when is the submission of evidence due ?
it 's by midnight today .
pd joo .
yes , representative .
contact that novelist .
tell her i want to meet her before that due time .
pardon ?
what are you going to do when you meet her ?
she won 't accept any deal for settlement .
even if i have to kneel down or beg her , i should do whatever i can .
even if we have to put her name as the writer of the original story , the drama must be aired .
for now , lawyer park , go to the court and submit these materials . pd joo , find out where writer jo young eun is right now .
yes .
then , let 's get going .
is something wrong ?
why ?
do you have writer 's block ?
you must be nervous because the first broadcast day is coming up .
yeah , it must be .
aigoo .. aigoo , why are you crying like a fool ? at your elementary school literary contest , you said that it was embarrassing when i was crying .
did i say that ?
that 's right . the award certificate you won that day , the hand-crafted paper father 's day carnation , and the diary you wrote in saying you 'd become a great writer .. i still have all those things .
why have you kept them still ?
do you think that 's all ?
while you were in high school , you wrote me a letter saying you were going to leave the house .. after finishing ' morning in kyeongseong ' , you even gave me that plastic thing telling me you 'd show me the first .
i still have that too .
when you say ' plastic thing ' .. was it like this small ?
sure is !
mom , where is it ?
why ?
i found it !
what is it ?
morning in kyeongseong - 03.14.2005 .
lee go eun first draft
is that something important ?
this is great !
i found it !
i 'm saved !
thank god .
how much is that ?
it 's priceless !
i 'm saved !
i love you !
that 's such a relief .
i got a hold of writer jo young eun .
she says she 'll wait for you at a cafe near her house in heuksukdong .
alright .
what do you want ?
i found it !
i said , " i found it ! "
i found the first draft of " morning in kyeongseong " i wrote back in 2005 !
oh , taxi !
then , we 're good .
props team , get them ready !
bring those chairs this way !
still no contact from anthony ?
yes .
excuse me .
a decision will be made by court today ..
do you want to try calling ?
alright , let 's start filming !
tell me .
what is your reason ?
ok , cut !
shoot me if you can .
crazy bastard
i said , tell me !
hold on .
stop filming .
yeah . it 's me , representative kim .
the court has made a decision .
and the result ?
what .. ?
i understand .
i 'll pass the message .
everyone .
the result pertaining to the broadcast of " morning in kyeongseong " has arrived .
it has been determined that ..
" morning in kyeongseong " is not a plagiarized script .
it 's an original piece of work !
without an ounce of suspicion , let 's do our best for the first broadcast !
understood , everyone ?
!
yes !
such a crybaby .
oh ..
thank you , representative .
don 't be disorganized in the future .
get your stuff copyrighted , take good care of all your files , and save back-ups .
crying and laughing , way to make a scene .
throw it away .
but it looks expensive .
let 's go together !
aigoo , seriously ! i 'm in a skirt !
stop acting like you 're so clean .
i 'm not .
you 're just dirty .
what is this ?
a.k ?
can 't you tell by looking ?
it 's my name .
ah ..
was your name anthony from the very beginning ?
i mean , even though your parents lived in the united states for so long . they 're still korean , so wouldn 't they give you a korean name ?
no such thing .
my name was anthony from the day i was born .
how can there be anthony in a korean name ?
what do your parents think ?
i never asked them .
then call them and ask them .
they both passed a long time ago .
you don 't need to feel sorry since i 'm not concerned in any way .
then should i give you a korean name ?
what would be good ?
kim ..
kim ..
ah !
how about ' kim young man ' ?
you get insulted by a lot of people . so , short for kim yok mani ( lots of insults ) ,
kim yong man .
are you having fun , messing with me ?
very much so .
40 woo 6976 ... 6976 please , pull over ... 40 woo 6976 ...
look here !
aish !
since it is your fault , cover the fine yourself .
i 'm not the one driving , why do i have to pay ?
you 've ran a stoplight . please show me your license .
aigoo , you 're working hard .
since i have to attend an urgent matter and something like this won 't happen again , can 't you let us off this time ?
yes , please don 't do it again .
- thank you ..
but give me your driver 's license .
your license has expired already . requesting identity confirmation , requesting identity confirmation ,
resident registration no . : 741104-1675138 .
the name , kim bong dal ?
kim as in kimchi , bong as in bongos , and dal as in dallas .
kim bong dal .
aye , why is he saying that ?
kim bong d ... no freaking way !
anthony is kim bong dal ... that 's his real name !
awesome ...
for real ?
excuse me .
you said you didn 't have a korean name .
kim bong dal .
i wonder if that 's an american name too .
kim bong ..
dal ~ ?
don 't laugh .
i 'm sorry , but the name is so irresistible .
kim as in kimchi , bong as in bongos , [ bong means mountain top ]
dal as in dallas .
[ dal means the moon . ]
it 's so funny !
i 'm sorry but ...
it 's too funny ! kimchi ... bongwoori ( meaning " mountain peak " ) ,
daldeongee ( meaning " round face like the moon " ) . so , november 4th is our kim bong dal 's birthday .
yes , the door is not locked .
yes ...
you 're surprised , aren 't you ?
it 's just a joke !
oh , oh my ... i 'm sorry .
you must have been so surprised .
i thought it was someone else .
not at all .
would you like to come in ? i guess you 've been writing the script , so i 'm afraid if i 'm interrupting now .
not at all . please have a seat .
i don 't have anything but coffee , is that okay ?
yes .
what brought you here ?
i came to apologize .
i 'd like to apologize sincerely .
misunderstanding about your script , that was my mistake .
no , i understand why you misunderstood . when i read that book ,
i also thought that different people could come up with similar ideas .
if you think in that way , i 'm thankful .
but , there 's something i was curious about .
what 's the relationship between you and representative ?
was my question a bit odd ?
i was curious about that from the beginning . anthony kim , the previous representative of empire production , isn 't a person who would wager everything he has on a newbie writer 's drama .
what 's up with you two ?
no , there is nothing between the two of us , what do you mean , " relationship " ?
i totally hate a man with that kind of style .
what kind of women in the world would like a man like him ? well , if we must put the word " relationship , " " relationship " of a demon and an angel ?
pardon ?
just ... a vicious representative of drama production company and an angel-like writer ?
something like that ?
but why are you asking that ?
no .
from now on , all of us must run for the highest rating of the first episode of " morning in kyeongseong " on november 5th !
yes !
how are our competitors of other broadcasting stations going now ?
currently , " return of the king " of k broadcasting is running as the number one in ratings .
followed by " between lovers " of m broadcasting in the second .
then , what about s broadcasting ?
its drama is in last with one digit rating ( under 10 % ) .
i don 't think we can get any advantage from the previous drama 's rating .
last tuesday 's rating was 6.2 % .
it was the worst .
it seems we will have a hard fight .
of course it will be hard , but no matter what , we will win .
from the day when anthony took the position of representative to 2009 when he resigned , these are accounting fraud books and the lobbying list which used the money from that accounting fraud .
all of them were instructed by you , chairman , but all accounts and transactions were done under the name of anthony .
other than that , he didn 't steal even a single penny from my money ?
yes .
that 's unexpected .
well , with these , he would be rotting in a prison for at least 10 years .
contact our legal team and let them proceed .
yes .
yes , pd kim .
i called you because i heard our " morning in kyeongseong " will be introduced at your " entertainment tonight . "
yes , yes .
then , please take good care of that .
i 've sent the revised script for episode 7 .
mr. kim .
bong .
dal .
yes , mom .
hey , we have big trouble .
come quickly to our restaurant .
what 's going on ?
can 't you see ?
there are so many customers here !
aigo ...
i can 't do this by myself !
mom !
is that big trouble ?
of course , it is !
top star , kang hyun min is visiting here himself !
mr. kang hyun min ?
why are you here ?
why ?
to promote writer lee 's " morning in kyeongseong , " i 'm here .
they are from my fan club .
kang hyun min !
kang hyun min !
kang hyun min !
kang hyun min !
- everyone !
- yes ! this person is the beautiful writer of our " morning in kyeongseong , " writer lee go eun .
- writer lee .
- yes .
please say something . please say something . please say something .
huh ?
ah ... yes ...
hello !
i 'm writer lee go eun .
nice to meet you all .
our " morning in kyeongseong "
will be aired soon .
there are not many days left until its first episode .
please promote our drama a lot .
our " morning in kyeongseong " and here mr.kang hyun min , no , from now on , kim woo jin ( the role 's name ) , you will give lots of love to them , right ?
yes !
but , seriously , why are you here ?
i 'm sorry for misunderstanding your drama , writer lee .
i thought that apologizing with only words wouldn 't be enough .
so , you want to apologize with money and your fans ?
because i have nothing but only money and fans !
then , i will get going for filming now .
again , sorry ! see you later !
goodbye !
yes , representative ?
you want me to amend all of the script for episode 7 ?
not all of them but scene 42 and scene 43 with that clumsy melodrama part .
clum ... clumsy ?
it even has the kiss scene of the main two characters , but where do you mean is it clumsy ?
writer lee , when you kiss a man , are you doing it in this way ?
huh ?
no , i mean , have you ever kissed a man ?
i have !
then , do it .
what ?
!
in my eyes , the kiss scene in scene 43 gives only the feeling of two wooden sticks hitting each other .
so , i 'm telling you to try it yourself , writer lee .
pardon ?
pd joo , read out loud scene 43 .
well , everyone , let 's see .
scene 43 , inside of modern club . sad piano music is filling the empty club ,
kim woo jin is sitting alone in front of the piano and playing it .
at this moment , with tip-tap , tip-tap sound of high heels , a woman approaches woo jin .
what are you doing ?
i told you to try it yourself .
even if woo jin sensed hye rin coming near him , he doesn 't stop playing . hye rin grabs his hand .
woo jin stops playing the piano .
hye rin speaks . " from now on , your playing piano , can you do it only for me ? "
woo jin stays still , not taking his eyes off the piano .
hye rin speaks .
" even if i lie to you , even if i .... even if i betray you , i 'm asking if you can play the piano , only for me . "
" no . " after that , woo jin stands up , staring at hye rin , and kisses her ?
even that dumb kang hyun min won 't be able to grab sung min ah and kiss her !
i 'm not an actress , though !
a writer is supposed to write to make actors act !
if you feel so wronged , then go ahead , ask these male viewers what they think .
that 's why you should revise it . i don 't think it 's because you don 't like melodramas , but because you can 't write them . pd joo , contact the assistant director and tell him scene 42 and scene 43 will be revised , so he should proceed with the other scenes ' filming , except for those scenes .
the reason ...
don 't ask me why .
what i can do for you is ...
cut !
ng !
min ah , this is already the fourth ng . it 's not a difficult line , but what 's wrong ?
i 'm sorry , director .
then , let 's take a 10-minute break !
we will resume after 10-minute break !
what are you doing , being so childish ?
then , what about you , miss sung min ah ?
you childishly doubted writer lee , but have you apologized to her ?
what 's that with today 's filming ?
if you humiliated a person publicly , shouldn 't you officially apologize to her in front of all of them ?
i apologized to her officially , so please , stop that moronic act .
mo ~ ron !
moronic act ?
that 's right ! you will keep experiencing that ! this kang hyun min 's revenge , it 's season one , two , three , four !
it will be continued !
hyung , have you read the script for episode 7 ?
why ?
the revision has been made from episode 1 , so the melodrama line starts sooner too .
is that so ?
there is even a kiss scene with miss sung min ah .
what ?
kissing scene ?
yeah .
but as per the assistant director , it will be revised .
representative , then , we will go home now .
okay , you 've worked hard today .
since tomorrow is our first air date , have a good sleep tonight .
you will need to run around all day , tomorrow .
yes , i understand !
we will leave , then .
scene # 43 , inside of modern club .
what ?
i can 't even kiss ?
should i experience a kiss to write well about a kiss scene ?
then , what about a story about a serial killer ? its writer should be a serial killer ?
how absurd it is ...
hello .
excuse me ... ah , because of that damn kim bong dal , i can 't focus on the right feeling .
kim bong dal 's birthday !
what is it ?
didn 't you go home ?
i have some business to do with you , representative .
business ?
anthony , anthony , anthony ~ happy birthday to you ~ happy birthday to you ~ happy birthday , dear representative !
happy birthday to you ~ ~ !
representative , happy birthday !
what are you doing now ?
today is your birthday , representative .
your id number ...
kimchi , bongwoori ( " peak " ) , daldeongee ( " moon face " ) !
i 'm sorry , but can 't you see i 'm working now ?
stop interrupting and get out , please .
that 's what i 'm saying !
geez . maybe today isn 't his birthday .
that 's weird , because i heard it clearly .
maybe he had something bad earlier .
is he sulking now ? anyway , i 'm sorry !
no .
what are you sorry for ?
we 'll escort you to your studio .
ah , really ?
- yes . - oh , we 're mannered guys .
alright !
by the way , what are they about , kimchi , bongwoori , dalmaji ( " viewing the moon " ) ?
no , it 's daldeongee ( " moon face " ) !
can i meet you now ?
i will wait at the cafe .
happy birthday !
it 's the ring , which you cherished as if it was your life because you believed it protected your success .
it won 't be exactly same as that one , but it will look almost same .
please make sure to succeed with this drama too .
thank you , but i 'd like to decline this present .
please just accept it .
i 'm sorry but this one ... can 't be that ring .
it 's the ring , which you cherished as if it was your life because you believed it protected your success .
don 't worry about me .
even when you 're in the states , don 't skip your meals , and take good care of your health .
understand ?
mom ...
what ?
your attention , please .
passengers for new york , ... oh , dear . you 'd better go now .
i will go , then .
he-hey !
this is your father 's ring .
take this ring .
hurry up , or you will be late .
hurry up , go !
it seems you 're busy these days . today she was anticipating you more than usual , wanting to stay up until late , and just went to bed .
did you have some seaweed soup ?
[ seaweed soup is traditionally eaten on b-days ]
weren 't you asleep ?
i 'm sorry .
i should have taken care of it but since my body 's like this .
that 's why you have to quickly get up and leave this place .
so that you can cook seaweed soup for me .
right .
i have to .
since i saw your face , it 's okay now .
you must be busy .
hurry and leave .
be careful when you leave .
i look forward to the first broadcast tomorrow .
it 'll go well , don 't worry too much .
you are your mom 's son .
finally , it 's tomorrow .
my new destiny will start .
will i be smiling at the end of that destiny ?
i 'll be able to smile .
no , i just hope that i will be able to smile .
today , the food is free in celebration of ' morning in kyeongseong 's ' first broadcast !
welcome !
today , the food is on me !
yes , it 's all free !
the day we 've all been waiting for , the first broadcast day of " morning in kyeongseong , " has finally arrived .
send the press release materials to all media venues , as we have to let the whole country know about the premier of our drama !
yes , understood !
revise the final trailer and get it aired starting 9 hours before the premier .
include scenes that haven 't been relased so far ...
i think that 'd be better .
here it is .
ok , start music here .
team leader han , make sure that the entertainment news show , that airs tonight , goes smoothly .
lastly , each of you can leave a message to the viewers throughout the country .
dear viewers , ' morning in kyeongseong ' , the show you 've been waiting for will have its first broadcast tonight at 9 : 55 .
yes , i hope that many of you will watch it .
fighting !
this concludes the coverage of " morning in kyeongseong . "
have you had dinner ?
good work people .
it 's a wrap for today .
tonight , let 's all enjoy the first episode in the comfort of our own respective homes .
ah , time is so slow .
how many more minutes ?
30 minutes .
what ?
30 minutes .
are you really not going to watch the first episode ?
unni , you know about my jinx .
if i watch the first episode , the viewership rating sucks .
ok , i understand .
- i 'm leaving , rest well
- yes .
why did you want me to come all the way here ?
monitor the live viewership ratings along with your script of the episode .
see for yourself what element excites the viewers and what makes them change the channel .
from now on until the 20th episode , you are breathing with the viewers .
you 're here ?
representative kim , congratulations .
you 've made a comeback after 3 years .
i 'll accept that after 70 minutes .
sure .
congratulaitons , writer lee .
finally , you 've become a real writer .
thank you .
broadcasting in 3 minutes .
watch that viewership rating graph carefully .
the life and death of all of us is on that line of destiny .
2 minutes .
1 minute .
in a few minutes , the drama my daughter wrote will be on .
10 seconds .
5seconds 4,3 , 2 , 1 start ! 4,3 , 2 , 1 start !
we have a start with 7.1 %
not a great start .
what do we do ? it 's been 30 minutes , and it 's at 6.8 % .
we 're still the lowest .
where are you going ?
it 's still in the middle of the broadcast !
it 's all over .
it 's only been 30 minutes since the show started .
half an hour has passed already and the rating is in the pits .
we have lost .
in total misery .
so you 're here .
that 's why i told you . we need to go for melodrama , not noir .
ajummah , can i get a glass here , too ?
what are you doing ?
i 'm going to drink too .
go work on your script .
i want to be alone .
thank you .
representative kim .
the show just finished .
i suppose .
the average viewership rating has been calculated .
speak .
yes .
yes .
i understand .
the viewership rating result is in ?
we must have had a spike towards the end .
viewership rating is 15.7 % .
we 're in the lead !
oh my !
15.7 !
this is awesome !
we 've hit it off big !
- congratulations !
- jackpot !
jackpot !
congratulations !
this is just the beginning .
awesome !
we 're first !
15.7 %
- 15.7 % - thanks , lord !
yes ?
15.7 % ?
first ?
oh my !
yes , what did i tell you ?
didn 't i tell you ' morning in kyeongseong ' would be a success ?
i 'm anthony after all .
where are you going ?
i should go work on the script with this energy !
forget the script , tonight you should drink !
yes .
yes .
yes .
yes , i understand .
finally the era of kang hyun min has started .
conquer korea , then japan , china , taiwan , and then the whole world !
didn 't i tell you we 'd definitely be success ?
tch !
don 't you remember what you just said a while ago ?
what did i tell you ?
we shouldn 't have gone with noir .
when did i ?
at any rate , i think this is meaningful in so many different ways .
especially that we got the highest rating with a genre that hadn 't been attempted in korea before . of course , the producer 's eye in discerning the right script was especially crucial .
what about the promising writer 's writing skills with tenacity ?
you sure are a promising writer , but you still have a long way to go .
at any rate , a drama writer needs to know how to write good melodrama .
nothing like that pathetic kissing scene .
that talk again ! tell me truthfully , you 've never had a kiss right ?
that of cours-
you haven 't felt your heart beating for a man .
i 've felt it before .
not just a childish crush .
i 've definitely ,
you 've definitely not experienced that .
seriously , aren 't you drinking a little too much ?
you were already drinking before i came here .
i 'm anthony .
mere alcohol can 't defeat me .
pd joo , where are you ?
eh ?
soowon ?
it 's nothing .
well , it 's just ... no , never mind .
ah man , ah , darn !
mere alcohol what ?
can 't defeat me ?
seriously !
i guess ... it 's my fault ... for drinking with him .
sleep well . [ dropping the honorifics ]
don 't ever drink again !
what do you think about me ?
yes ?
how do you think of me as a man ?
see you tomorrow ~ preview so what you two are saying right now ..
.. is that you have a problem with the kiss scene in episode 7 ? that 's right .
you are under arrest for professional negligence and misappropriation of funds .
exactly why do you hate me so much ?
i 'll kill you .
stop sabotaging the production of " morning in kyeonseong , " alread !
please ! how dare you order me around ?
if you 've got a nice lady friend , you can bring her to me .
i 'll show you when i find one .
what have you been doing all those years without ever dating a boyfriend ?
how i hate him , hate him .
the mother of mr. kim bong dal is seriously ill .
mo , mother ?
mom !
mom !
episode 12 no enemy is permanent how do you think of me as a man ? well ...
this is called " melodrama . " this heartbeating , fluttering , this is " melodrama " right there ! so , now , go and revise that melodrama scene .
what was that ? that scared me ... what kind of human being is he ?
seriously !
what do you think about me ?
how do you think of me as a man ?
what man ?
but why couldn 't i say no at that moment ?
no .
that was because i was toyed in a flash .
that 's right .
crazy bong dal ...
so embarrassing !
who is it ?
who is it ?
it 's me .
what 's this ?
what is he doing here ?
why are you here ?
i have something to say , so open the door first .
what do you have to say ?
you didn 't answer me before .
huh ?
how do you think of me as a man ?
i 'm thinking of you in this way .
oh , that was a relief . ( because it was a dream . )
what 's a relief ?
what time do you think it is now that you 're still in bed ?
since when have you been here ?
since a little while ago .
when i came in , you were pawing the air as if you were a turtle which was flipped over .
even if you are the producer , how could you come in a female writer 's studio thoughtlessly ?
this is a writer 's studio paid by my money and opened by me .
but that writer didn 't even answer the phone call and didn 't show any reaction to the door because she was too busy sleeping .
so , what else can i do , then ?
if you need to sleep that much , do you think you can survive in this drama industry ?
why did you come ?
hurry and revise the melodrama scene of episode 7 and send it to us .
we need to film that scene on this thursday .
i will revise that scene !
do it quickly ! well !
get out !
even if you don 't tell me to go , i will leave .
and from now on , even if you 're sleeping , when i call you , answer it .
because i don 't want to see you pawing the air when i 'm so busy .
ah , seriously ... " morning in kyeongseong , " from the first episode , wins monday-tuesday .
woo hoo ~ " morning in kyeongseong , " from the first episode , wins monday-tuesday .
" kang hyun min 's charisma was shining . "
" indeed , it was kang hyun min , just like everybody said . "
[ sung min ah , her comeback drama after 3 years shows its signal of success . "
min ah , what are you doing ?
oh , you 're here .
what ?
" morning in kyeongseong , " the pioneer of new drama genre . " catching two birds and great harmony between a veteran director and a newbie writer .
" writer lee go eun , i 've never heard of her name , but she 's the best ! " " even if she 's a newbie , her writing is awesome ! "
then , let 's proceed with it accordngly .
you 've worked hard ! you 've work hard . well , and this one has not only a good rating , but also the reaction ( from the viewers ) is really great .
it went so viral . this drama hit the jackpot , jackpot !
did it ? well , i think , our writer lee go eun , don 't you think we should start managing her ? ( meaning " keeping her " )
do you know what people on the internet say about lee go eun ?
they say " the next writer kim soo hyun ( one of the best korean drama writers ) . "
i think we should give her at least a present or something .
what kind of present do you think would be good ?
- a present ?
- yes !
cp lee .
- let 's calm down a little bit , please .
- calm down ?
i will leave now .
so , not a present , but calm down ?
hello ?
is this writer lee go eun ?
yes . who is it ?
hello .
this is reporter kim eun hee from woo ri daily newspaper .
i called you because i 'd like to have an interview .
interview ?
with whom ?
with you , writer lee .
you want to have an interview with me ?
yes , reporter kim .
yes .
but , can i pick the place ? ( to have an interview )
is there any special reason you picked this place ?
yes .
because " morning in kyeongseong " started from this place .
- here ?
- yes .
when i was living here , i came up with its idea and wrote its first draft .
then , this is the most perfect place to have an interview with you , writer lee . after the first episode of " morning in kyeongseong " was aired , its reaction ( from the viewers ) was very good .
who is the first one you think of or you are grateful of ?
of course it 's my mom , mrs. park kang ja .
if it weren 't for my mom , i wouldn 't have been able to write again .
- your mother ?
- yes .
oh , and there is one more person .
who else ? even if that person has really bad personality and is heartless , because this guy made me go through so much hardship , but if it weren 't that person , " morning in kyeongseong " couldn 't have been born .
who is that person ?
mr. kim bong dal .
how does it feel to be outside ?
it has been a while since you had fresh air .
i feel so good .
i can hear the sound of spring coming , too .
the sound of spring coming ?
for spring to come , we still have to wait for a long time . like the sound of spring coming ,
i can hear the sound of some welcome guest coming .
that drama was really enjoyable .
if you think it 's enjoyable , then it 's really enjoyable .
it 's rating is really good , too .
you 've worried a lot , haven 't you ?
me ?
no .
from the beginning , i knew it would be successful .
whatever your son makes will be the best , so don 't worry at all . don 't work too hard like that , and if you have a good girl , you should show her to me , too . even if i can 't see her , if i hear her voice ,
i will be able to know how good a woman she is .
if i have , i will show her to you , then .
umm .. for a while , even if you 're busy , please come visit her often .
even though she doesn 't show it , her condition has been quite bad these days .
yes , i understand .
yes .
yes , speaking .
this is prosecutor kim dong chan from the taxation investigation unit of seoul central prosecutor 's office .
there is a complaint filed against you , so you should come now .
what are you talking about ?
don 't you understand what i 'm saying ?
i 'm saying you 've been summoned .
unless you want to be humiliated in front of your family , come here right away ! so , you 're saying you can 't admit all the charges described here ?
yes , that 's right .
but , according to the materials we 've received , the evidence is pretty clear .
from 2006 , 2007 and ... until 2009 .
see for yourself .
it seems like the material submitted by empire production .
even all the little details about you are described . i understand how you feel now , but let 's proceed with it simply not dragging too much time .
please let me have a cross-examination with oh jin wan , the accuser .
come in !
a little while ago , anthony was summoned to the prosecutor 's office and interrogated .
as you wish , i will arrange the cross-examination with the accuser , so see you next time .
yes , pd joo .
yes , representative .
were you occupied , by any chance ?
i couldn 't reach you for a while .
it was nothing .
but why ( did you look for me ) ?
well , i called you to ask if you want to see today 's episode at the broadcasting control room again .
of course , i should be there .
who is it ?
it 's delivery service .
are you lee go eun ?
yes .
please take this .
yes .
could you sign here , please ?
here you go .
work hard . yes .
writerleego eun !
cheeringforyouforever !
[ cp lee sung jo ]
i guess you really like that gift ?
oh , you came ?
man , he 's so shallow .
look how his attitude towards you has changed overnight .
but , why are you here ?
why do you think i 'm here ?
to congratulate you on getting the lead in ratings .
congratulations for you .
please come in .
essentially , the viewership rating went up right at that moment .
a vertical spike !
what is it that you want to tell me ?
huh ?
" tell you " ?
what do you mean ?
that 's the way it always is .
you always ask me for some favor when you come .
it 's alright , you can say it . hey ,
i really came just to congratulate you .
i said it 's alright .
what is it this time ?
about the kiss scene ...
isn 't it rather awkward ?
it 's like putting two stick figures together .
i 'm working on a revision anyway ,
oh really !
of course !
i knew it !
seriously , didn 't i tell you that there 's no need to worry , gwang soo ? i mean , i was ok , but he was losing sleep over it because he was worried for me , so my heart beat went beep .
we shouldn 't be sitting around here .
let 's get out .
where to ?
i 'll buy you a gift .
a gift ?
i have noticed that your .. winter wardrobe seems rather ... lacking .
let 's go out .
i 'll buy you a warm , cozy winter jumper .
you want to buy me a winter jumper ?
yes . i 'll buy it .
whatever you want .
as much as i want ?
anything you want !
take your pick !
go ahead !
thank you . thank you .
do you have this in size 100 ?
that color is not good .
this is the newest !
this one !
actually , i don 't like to wear something unless it 's from the newest line .
mr. hee jae , i heard that this winter is going to be warm .
it looks too warm .
up to how many can i get for free with the sponsorship ?
just two .
darn it ... !
we have a good start from the get go .
i think the second episode will have an even higher rating !
in the end ... that was what you wanted ?
just do as i say .
cut !
that 's a wrap .
listen , our show is being aired just fine , so let 's focus on our work !
good job .
thisshissallbecoz .... brrrrrr . brrrr , ah , man , my tongue is stiff .
i 'm so sorry .
ah . let 's do it again .
why did my tongue get so stiff ?
sorry . i 'm sorry .
this is all all ... * cough * uh , i 'm sorry . uh , i feel bad .
it 's winter , you know .
this is all becox of your ....
man , i forgot my line !
i 'm sorry .
ah , ms. ji yeon , what is my next line ? do you know ? min ah , are your knees ok ?
yes , i 'm okay .
i can tolerate this much .
i 'm really sorry .
it hurts a lot , doesn 't it ?
sorry , min ah .
search for it over there .
yes .
are you alright ? oops .. i 'm sorry , director !
my hand was freezing , so i guess i aimed wrong . i 'm sorry ! well , if you can , for the hitting scene , let 's go without an ng .
yes .
ready ...
action !
oh , what should i do ?
i guess my hand is still freezing , what should i do ... ?
oh , i 'm so sorry !
i 'm sorry .
let 's go again .
oh , what was my next line ?
ji yeon !
what was my next line ?
i 'm sorry !
i 'm sorry .
what on earth is the reason you 're doing this to me ?
cut !
okay !
that was good !
hyun min !
are you alright ?
sure , i 'm fine !
it hurts a lot , doesn 't it ?
oh , it 's swollen , so red !
what should we do ... ?
good work !
good work !
we 'll move to the next location in 30 minutes .
okay .
i can see you 're drooling .
by the way , that person , i 've never seen her before .
she is the new fd .
ah , fd ... [ meet writer lee go eun of " morning of kyeongseong , " the new drama in the news . ]
.... " and she expressed her gratitude to mr. kim bong dal as well . " representative , the photo of writer lee looks really great , doesn 't it ?
well , just so-so .
by the way , who do you think would be that kim bong dal ?
who knows .
but , isn 't his name so funny ?
these days , people don 't use such a rustic name .
kim bong dal ... ?
koo hee jae .
yes .
don 't concern about other people 's names , and do your job driving properly .
yes .
in a situation of divergent love , they 're kissing ...
kiss ... by grabbing her hand , woo jin stops her from leaving .
how do you think of me as a man ?
the door is not locked .
ah , one sec ...
what is that ?
that dumb expression ?
what 's wrong with my expression ?
aren 't you curious ?
about what ?
what do you mean " what " ?
the rating for episode 2 , i mean .
ah , how was it ?
16.2 % . we 're still the highest , but with the second highest , the difference is only 0.8 % , so don 't loosen up yet .
yes .
did you revise that kiss scene ?
yes , of course .
how is it ?
it 's okay .
from now on , do it well on your own .
pardon ?
what have you done so far , not having dated anyone ?
well , i guess no man would stick around to put up with all your bad temper .
ah , from now on , if you 're grateful , say it to me personally .
don 't beat around the bush by saying it to a reporter .
geez , that guy ...
he really makes me not like him .
does it hurt a lot ?
yes , it hurts crazily .
is that wench crazy ?
what face does she think she deals with ... seriously ...
oppa .
huh ? your cheek went in further , so your chin looks even longer .
what ?
no ... sung min ah , this fox-like wench !
by the way , hyung .
what ? i received the revised script , but its kiss scene seems even stronger now .
what ?
... " kisses her . "
oppa !
you said there is no kiss scene !
kwang soo .
get ready with the car .
pardon ?
where are you going ?
are you asking that because you don 't know ? so , when they said it would be revised , they meant that she 's writing the kiss scene better .
with that moron ?
give me the phone .
" the number you called isn 't available at the moment ... " then , about the funds he snuck out , are you saying you have no knowledge , mr. oh jin wan ?
yes .
i had no knowledge of it . sunbaenim , why don 't you tell him the truth ?
all that money , what did you do with that ?
prosecutor .
chief prosecutor wants you to call him .
i got it .
let 's take a short break .
what on earth do you think you 're doing now ?
as if you don 't know .
you would know well that i wouldn 't die alone .
where and when i used that money , do you want me to spill it all out ?
try it , then .
because i 've already got rid of all evidence of that money being used for lobbying .
and there is no evidence it was done by chairman 's instruction .
what we have are only the traces of transactions of all that money in your bank account .
why on earth ... do you hate me so much ?
if this is because of all humiliation i 've given you ...
humiliation ...
no .
you wouldn 't know how it feels even if you came back from death . [ dropping the honorifics ]
director oh , director oh ... even if i was called so sickly and treated even less than a bug , such things can still be erased . however , because your bulls * * tting philosophy that you should even abandon your father for a drama ,
as long as that moment , that memory remains in my brain , you ...
i 'm going to kill you .
well , then , let 's stop this cross-examination .
you can go back now .
wait . where do you think you 're going ?
for dereliction of duty and embezzlement , you 're arrested without warrant . until the warrant is approved , for the next 48 hours , you can 't leave this office , not even a step . ah , these days , because of that guy , i had a big headache , but thanks to you , i 'm relieved now .
yes , please take good care of this case .
yes .
arrested without a warrant ?
why is that all of a sudden ?
that 's why you should have minded your behaviors .
i asked you why !
can 't you tell just by looking at this ?
you 're in a serious bind right now .
even if you had to part ways with him , you shouldn 't have done that to your superior .
hey , kim joo yong !
it 's been a while .
yes , what 's going on ?
oh , end-of-the-year gathering ? well , actually , currently , at my district prosecutor 's office , the representative of the production company of one of your dramas has been arrested without a warrant .
arrested without a warrant ?
who from our dramas ?
" morning in kyeongseong , " sounded like it 's still going on .
" morning of kyeongseong " ?
is representative kim there ?
yes , but i don 't think he 'll be released easily .
seems like there was an order from the higherups .
someone must be behind all this .
okay ...
thanks .
she 'd said she 'd revise it ... how dare she make a fool of me ?
!
hyung we 're here .
oh , why are you here ?
why ?
do you have to ask ? so , let me get this straight , both of you have issues with the kissing scene in episode 7 ?
that 's right .
-that 's right .
but both of you knew that there will be some romance later in the story . although they realize that they love each other more than anybody , they have to be enemies , so this is a pivotal turning point for these two characters .
that 's what makes it all the more tragic .
a kiss doesn 't make it more tragic , though , to leave it as tragic , they should just stare at each other .
which we can pull off well enough with our acting skills .
exactly !
at any rate , change it like that .
without the kiss .
after revising the previous draft because it was considered too bland , i can 't do that .
who said that ?
i mean , who said that it 's bland ? well , i 'm not saying that i revised it because of one person 's opinion , but i also thought it was bland after all , so i ended up revising it . also , if , by any chance , this is because you don 't get along with each other , i 'll be seriously disappointed .
unni , do we not get a long ? [ dropping the honorifics ]
i wouldn 't say we don 't . [ still uses honorifics ]
what does the director say ?
no matter what the director says , i can 't do it .
no , i won 't .
don 't change your word later .
we have to be persistent to the end .
just make sure that you don 't change your words .
don 't worry .
i also have no desire to kiss you .
well then , that 's good . if i could avoid kissing that firefox ,
i 'd gladly swim in the ocean again ! if i have to kiss that moron , i 'd rather have my character shot dead so i can quit the drama .
so , hyung , do you think writer lee will revise it ?
after all , you did end up swimming in the ocean .
jesus christ !
no way !
moron
yes ? i 'd like to share from my experience of ending up swimming in the ocean , if we really want to avoid the kiss scene , we have to present an appropriate alternative .
alternative ?
for example , we could make the revision ourselves and give it to her .
that 's not a bad idea .
this one , this one , this one , this one ! take out " he kisses her , " and change it to " woojin gazes at her . "
well , that doesnt work with the flow of the movement from the earlier scene .
you also have to take out the " he grabs her hand and stops her from leaving . "
then , how is he going to gaze at her ?
just blankly ?
can 't you pull it off with your acting skills ?
well , i have to see you to try acting .
then , why don 't we each fix our own parts .
okay , fine . i got it . i 'm hanging up .
good .
that idiot .
darn , that vixen .
man , if she 's going to do it anyway , why doesn 't she fix mine , too ...
jesus christ .
oh , writer lee .
your revision of the kiss scene is great !
but , representative kim isn 't here ?
no . he left in the morning .
what is it ?
nothing , just wondering why i couldn 't reach him .
let 's not waste any more time here .
no matter what , you 'll end up in prison .
just fess up everything so that your sentence can get reduced at least , mr. stiff-neck !
man , what is he doing with his phone turned off all day ?
yes , director , this is writer lee .
could i see you for a moment ?
" no matter what the director says , i can 't do it ? "
" no , i won 't ? "
no , that 's not it , director . that 's ...
i didn 't know you were such a snitch , writer lee .
excuse me ?
a snitch ? director ... in the end , what you 're saying is that you absolutely can 't do the kiss scene .
that 's correct . i 'm really sorry , but i just can 't do it , director .
yes , me too . fine , if you have to have things your way , then i 'll do things my way , too .
you know about my past , right ?
if i say i quit , i do quit !
and once i get started on something , there 's no stopping me . the past five years , i was drowning in wine , ruining my life , then turned around to work really hard on a drama .
once i drink this , i have no idea what might become of me .
what are you going to do ?
can you do it or not ?
the taste of wine is dragging me back to alcoholism .
director !
director !
i 'll do it .
and you , min ah ? i 'll do it , but , i can 't drink any alcohol , director .
then go and have a good night 's sleep .
tomorrow we have a full schedule ahead !
i understand .
i 'm leaving .
ah , really how can you keep drinking ?
you have a drink too .
refreshing cassia seed tea is good for your health .
what ?
cassia seed tea ?
oh !
this really isn 't alcohol .
ah , you really shocked me !
this is what it means to be " seasoned . "
it 's good ! someone was so confident about not changing his mind , but i shouldn 't have trusted someone 's words .
then what about you ?
who suggested it first ?
you 'd better brush your teeth properly ( before filming the kiss scene ) .
four times per day !
you 'd better have your teeth scaled !
the representative hasn 't come back yet ? yes , his cell phone is still turned off , so i was worried and waiting for him , but now i 'm about to go home .
he has never been like this before .
representative ?
ah , yes ...
who ?
i 'm sorry but there is no one named kim bong dal in this company .
yes .
i 'm sorry , but i guess you dialed the wrong number .
hold on , pd joo .
hold on , please .
hello .
hello , this is from chamsomang sanatorium .
sanatorium ?
yes .
is there anyone named kim bong dal ?
ah , if you tell me what you called for , i will leave the message for him .
i called because mr. kim bong dal 's mother is in critical condition now .
mo ... his mother ?
yes . please tell him he must come now .
well , wait a moment , where is your sanatorium ?
okay .
what is the reason you came to visit me ?
regarding the prosecutor 's investigation about representative kim , which is currently happening , please halt it right away .
i didn 't know that you cherished anthony that much , director nam .
no !
stop trying to sabotage the production of " morning of kyeongseong , " please !
how dare you order me to stop ...
father !
it has already been for 20 years that you didn 't acknowledge me as your father , shutting me off .
but now , are you taking sides with that bastard who backstabbed your father ?
i got it .
then , not as your son , but as director of sbc drama department , please let me rephrase it . your contemptible action , mr.chairman , then can you stop doing this ? anthony , that bastard has also lived in the way which you are contemptuous of , so he 's just purged of that sin .
that 's all .
purged of the sin ?
then , do you think you 're not guilty ?
what ?
please stop .
okay ?
and also ... as you said , i 've been shutting you off for last 20 years . but if you still have thoughts of me as your son , and if you don 't want to lose your one and only son forever , please stop , i beg you .
yes .
huh ?
!
