- no - somebody 's got to do it
somebody 's got to do it
somebody 's got to do it
somebody 's got to
somebody 's got to do it
- diane , diane
- thomas , thomas
thomas
it 'ii be ok
it was just a mild one
- yeah
you called me diane
thomas
i can 't take it anymore
i 'm worried about sarah
she 's weird
sometimes i think she 's talking to me in my head
she needs her father
everybody keeps calling to find out when blanche 's funeral will be
i don 't know what to tell them
you act like nothing happened
you spend your whole days organizing boxing matches , i
i 'm really sorry stephanie
you really loved armand , eh ?
i just want him to come back
- well , gastonne said if there 's no news soon , they 'ii organize a search party
- just want him back
did samuei say anything , since last night ?
- he mumbles all the time
sometimes you can make out words , sometimes not
- he 's like that since , uh
- since the accident
about ten years ago , a bunch of iumberjacks left in a helicopter to work in the north
coming back , the chopper crashed
they all died except sam
some hunters found him , iike that , two weeks later
- he wasn 't hurt ?
- no
- got cells got cells
cells cells
you 're tuned in to great bear radio with simone letendre
at the bear 's growl , it will be exactly 9 o 'ciock
rise and shine my little bear cubs !
how are you this morning ?
the awakening wasn 't too hard ?
no , tv still isn 't back but we were treated to a new episode starring one of our citizens , last night
poor armand , poor stephanie
ah , but it 's not easy finding love
each time we open the door to our heart to let love in , we never know what else can get in at the same time , huh ?
fear , pain , malice
but maybe also tenderness , joy , happiness
who knows ?
we never know
- happy birthday darling !
but , marie , i don 't drink
one glass of wine and i 'm drunk
- this is for the day i leave you
you won 't be able to do without this
- i iove your sense of humour
- yeah , it 's yours rubbing off
- keep it
but i never want you to use it because i 'ii never leave you
- i promise
where is my real gift ?
- come here
marie !
ok , the paper in doctor mondoux 's hand : did you find out what it is ?
- yeah
- and ?
what were you doing at the von trieck 's last night ?
- we wanted to talk to sarah
- what did she say ?
- well nothing
- what was the doctor 's paper ?
- give me a break ok ?
we had an agreement
since the beginning i 've given you all i 've had and i don 't get anything back in return
- yes i know - you 're hiding things from me
you went to see pierre too
did he give you the idea to talk to sarah ?
what did he say to you ? - go ask him , you 'ii find out
he doesn 't want to speak to me and everyone at the station thinks he 's a freak
- you don 't say ?
- hey there , bottle neck
quit it , all right ?
spit it out or else
- swear that you won 't use it against pierre
- biron , you can 't sell out your sources to the police like that
- you can 't treat my friends this way either
- hey that 's him
- pierre was at blanche 's house the night she died
he said he saw the kids bring her body back
- come on the kids didn 't kill blanche
- no , i don 't think so either but stephanie said sarah saw someone take off on a four-wheeier
- aren 't you
that famous journalist ?
- yeah , aren 't you ?
bernard
- yeah , yeah , louis-bernard lapointe
- that 's it !
that 's it ! - well hi
- hi
- hi
so what about samuei 's sentence ? " got cells " ?
- lapointe thinks it has to do with the accident ten years ago , but
- the iumberjacks ?
- yeah , the iumberjacks
- don 't you have , iike a talent , a magic trick or something ?
or a malformation or a scar
- come on
- what ? scars are cool
- no , no i won 't be a clown in your freak show , all right ?
- if you change your mind
- no , i won 't change my mind , forget it ok ?
- let 's go we 'ii stop bothering mr big star
- so , now that the stool pigeon has talked , could we find out what was on doctor mondoux 's paper ?
- a small piece of a scientific magazine
- like any of the hundreds in his office great !
- like any of the hundreds , yes
but why that one ?
i did some research ;
it 's from " neuroscience en avant "
and guess who 's on the cover ?
edouard paquette
the scientist who 's in great bear to fix the tv signal
i ordered the magazine from the national library
- which will probably get here in two to three days
so , in the mean time
biron ?
in the mean time , tell me the story of the iumberjacks
- there were twelve guys
- we call them the iumberjacks but they didn 't really have any skills
kind of the losers of the area
and when you 're considered a loser in great bear
- cream of the crop for sure
- the municipality hired them to work on a piece of land where they would have put up a radar station
- a radar station ?
but , that 's not municipal department
- i just called the mayor 's office
the documents about that contract have disappeared from the files
- we have to talk to the mayor , to your father
- he won 't say anything
if the documents aren 't there , he decided it
if they still exist though , i know where they are
in the safe in his office
- let me guess ; the problem is that he 's the only one who knows the combination
- no , the problem is that he 's the only one who has the key
and he always keeps it on him
- i have good news and bad news
- the bad news ?
- there 's no doubt the waves producing the images on tv are of identical nature to the ones i was obtaining with my device , ten years ago
- incredible the good news ?
- i 've identified what could be the emitting source or at ieast a relay
those dishes down there
- we 're getting closer
- who could be doing that ?
aii of my ex-coiiaborators have been contacted , it 's beyond me
- exactly whoever is doings this is beyond you paquette
i find this most exciting
the more reason for me to worry
i don 't want to interview edouard paquette
i just want to talk to him for two minutes
what 's the difference ?
listen , can you just tell me where i can find him ?
- even gastonne can 't talk to him
ok , after " got cells " ?
" be there where the thief dances "
what does that mean ?
every time we get a lead , it goes absolutely nowhere
we have a new sentence which gives us a new lead and it 's a complete mess
- no , no biron
those leads don 't stop , they slow down
and they all point in the same direction
- oh yeah ?
which one ? - i don 't know yet
but i trust blanche 's clues
- so , go join pierre lamy 's gang
- the hairdresser ?
actually , i 'm certain we 'd find very interesting things in that book he took from blanche 's house
- blanche 's big book is full of old wives ' tales spread over thirteen generations
- biron , to solve a problem , you have to go back to its origins
you have to cut it at the root
fine ok
not only are the leads we have absolutely ludicrous , they 're cold as ice
the only concrete facts we have are the article about edouard paquette found in doctor mondoux 's hand and the missing file on the iumberjacks
- edouard paquette , don 't you find that strange ?
a neurologist to fix a tv signal problem ?
- that accident always seemed very strange to me
and now , the tv freaks out
we have to open beiiveau 's safe
- no , that 's illegal
- i don 't give a damn
at least , it isn 't " esoteric blah blah " ; it 's concrete stuff
- picking the chief of police 's pocket never did anybody any good
i have an idea
beiiveau might be the chief
hello ?
this is emiie biron , yes
you wanted louis-bernard lapointe for your gala ?
you shall have him
- out of the question !
- under one condition
- no , no , no !
- did you hear what armand said on tv ?
he 's in deep shit
- christian , the merchandise isn 't for you
- to be a good salesman , you have to know your product
- we only have one buyer and they 're very satisfied ;
it 's not necessary
- only one buyer , for now but i have some expansion projects
- georges , your son is completely stoned
- never mind christian
what were you doing with lapointe ?
- what , lapointe ?
- yes , lapointe
- yes - you spend a iot of time with him
- i 'm not denying it either
he 's a charming man , we have a iot in common
anyway , it 's none of your business anymore georges
- a iot in common ! we have a son ; we have a family in common what do you want ; you want us to get married ?
then we 'ii get married
- no , you don 't understand
- mr ferron !
we 're ready
- where are you ? who are you talking to ?
there 's an emergency here , christian isn 't in any shape
montreal will be phoning in two seconds
- i 'ii call you later , ok ?
love you
christian ferron
hello
- christian , you 'ii have to admit that our second date can 't be any worse than the first
- did you know that your voice is really sexy ?
- i won 't say i 've never been told before
i have a feeling we 'ii get along , you and i , christian
our deal will go a iot smoother this time , right ?
- the first time , we didn 't know each other
i 've told you my name , what 's yours ?
- call me bird - it 's dove , isn 't it ?
- what ?
- i guessed it , didn 't i ?
your voice is so soft , it suits you , dove
- you don 't scare me with your big guns
you don 't want to tell me your real name ?
i 'ii call you dove - ok
- dove ?
help , somebody !
heiene , heiene !
i just want him to come back blanche
make him come back , i beg of you !
hush , you can 't make any noise
people will hear you , stop it
i don 't know what i was expecting by coming here so late tonight , if only to see you again for a moment
hope to see you soon
sarah is asleep
don 't worry , things will work out
- i just wonder where great bear is going without blanche
- to hell most likely
but you know , she isn 't really gone yet
- you feel her too ?
but it 's like she 's mute , like sarah
- do you know why the natives never settled near great bear ?
- no
- when i was young , one of my really old great-aunts came to visit from holland
my grandfather showed her around the mine and the town
in those days it was still the " von trieck mine "
he was proud
then my great-aunt , who had pretty much the same powers as blanche , asks my grandfather what " refracting stones " are
so my grandfather explains ;
refracting stones are rocks used to build chimneys , stones that you can heat up as much as you want they will never crack
when she hears that , my great-aunt is overtaken by vertigo and starts shouting : " stop !
stop ! "
you should have seen it ;
the guys in the mine were freaking out
so my grandfather takes her by the shoulders and asks her :
" what 's the matter ? "
she manages to catch her breath , and all cross-eyed , starts saying : " you shouldn 't move this rock , it is rock that never burns ;
god put it there to block the gates of hell
if you keep digging , demons from the abyss will come to the surface and torment you "
then my grandfather grabs her , shoves her in the truck and says : " crazy old woman , go back where you came from , you prophet of doom ! "
well , you know what ?
the natives had the same legend pretty much word for word
that 's why they never settled near great bear
- so what ?
you think that
- i think i don 't like prophets of doom !
- come on , bianche wasn 't a prophet of doom !
- how would you know , ferron ?
no , but really
how would you know ?
- rum and coke , just the way you iike it
i 'm glad you came by
i have things to be forgiven for
- oh yeah ?
what 's that ?
- you can go
i 'm not keeping you
- you know very well what i want
- you know very well that i won 't give it to you
you 'ii have to wait until the deal is done to get your share , like the rest of us
- i need money to leave town
and if dove knows i 'm involved , it 's not good for you either
- i know , but if dove finds you , she 'ii kill you
so i bet you 'ii make sure she doesn 't know you 're here
see how much i trust you ?
- i 'm not alone in this
what about christian ?
do you really trust him ?
- he 's my son
i 'm giving him a chance to earn my trust
lay low for a few days and everything will be fine
- you like it ?
- huh ? what ?
- you like it , eh ?
- yes , yes , yes , emiie , emiie !
emiie , emiie !
- yeah , yeah , yeah
- let 's go
- where ?
- i don 't know
aii she said was : " i have to talk to you "
then she hung up come on , hurry up !
- no , i 'm much better now
i should be going
you got what you wanted ?
yeah
it 's been clear , lately , that i will never have anything else
even this , i didn 't think anyway
- emile
what lapointe said about me that i 'm an opportunist and unhappy
- ah , forget about that
- no , no , there 's truth in that , i know
but i 'd iike you to give me a second chance , because
i don 't want to stay unhappy
think about it , ok ?
yeah , ok
i 'ii think about it
she 's here
- would you stop saying " she " ?
- he , she it doesn 't matter
- forgive me girls i haven 't slept in two days
i 'm translating the book
- and what does it say ?
- a iot of things but
this isn 't blanche 's book
- what do you mean , it isn 't blanche 's book ?
bianche gave it to you
- she didn 't give it to me
i took it
- so , what does that change ?
- you stole it
that changes everything
he 's not the heiress to the powers
- explain yourself
- every one of these books was written over thirteen generations
- yes , one chapter per generation , and ?
- the thirteenth chapter of this book has already been written
- then blanche wrote the thirteenth
- blanche didn 't write in this book
and she didn 't write the thirteenth chapter of any book
- what do you mean ?
- get it out of here !
get it out !
- take the book outside !
pierre , pierre , it 's all right
it 's ok , it 's all right
we have to get him to the hospital
go look in the back , there must be a wheelbarrow
we 'ii roll him to the car
the
the book is gone
are you sure ?
at dawn on a spring day in 1528 , a spanish fleet from cuba prepared to land an army of conquistadors on the shores of north america ,
they had come to find new lands of gold
it was thursday the 14th of april , 1528 , when they came ashore .
the beginning of the most disastrous of all the expeditions of the conquistadors , and yet one of the great epic stories in the history of the americas .
the spanish had called this florida , the land of flowers ,
but they found a strange and evil country ,
that summer , over 300 conquistadors struggled through these swamps ,
their leader , panphilo de narvaez , was arrogant and incompetent ,
they had no interpreters , their food supplies ran out ,
and worse , they were picked off by hostile tribes ,
the last survivors of those native peoples are still here , the seminole ,
they have fiercely defended their independence ever since ,
so you are the only native american people within the usa who never submitted ...
right . the only tribe to never sign a treaty of submission .
the elements of florida , a very , very good ally .
snakes and alligators , europeans worried more about them .
again , these people had no knowledge of florida .
narvaez had been licensed by the king of spain to discover and conquer florida ,
he hoped to find cities here with large populations and gold
instead , he found a poor landscape totally unsuitable for colonisation ,
but he pushed his army on further into the nightmare ,
" if only narvaez had come here to seek the well-being of the indians , " one spaniard wrote , " and not to wade through their blood to gain ill-gotten wealth , "
but his capacities did not come up to his dreams ,
with autumn coming on , the expedition was on the point of collapse ,
hoping now just to save their lives , they struggled down to the sea below tallahassee ,
but there was no sign of their ships ,
the fleet had given them up for dead
they 're starving , disillusioned , and narvaez weighs up the situation .
he thinks the spanish settlements in mexico are only a few leagues down the coast .
in fact , they 're 1,000 miles .
so he decides to build boats to escape .
and on the 22nd of september , nearly 300 survivors set sail in five barges .
( thunder )
in terrible weather , they tried to sail across the gulf of mexico , past the mississippi ,
narvaez himself was never seen again ,
we would know nothing of this story , but for the captain of one of the barges , a young spanish gentleman called a lvar nunez cabeza de vaca ,
cabeza de vaca wrote a remarkable account of his adventures and with it we set out to follow him across the gulf of mexico , to find out which way wind and tide might have taken him that autumn ,
he was coming out of this part of florida ,
the green arrows indicate the current and speed and , as you see , it gets pretty swift .
- along the mississippi delta .
- the arrows show the predominant direction ?
the predominant direction of the current .
0ccasionally , a lot of fronts come through , push the wind offshore and those tend to be very strong winds that 'll push offshore .
the predominant wind is from the southeast .
that 's interesting .
when they pass the mississippi mouth , they get caught up in a storm coming from the north that blows them right out to sea and nearly drowns them , in fact .
" in the end , " says cabeza de vaca ,
" we commended ourselves to god and the dangers of the sea ,
" and there was not a man among us who did not think that death was certain ,
" none of us had any idea of havigation ,
" for six weeks we were lost , " eating rotten maize , drinking sea water , which drove some men mad
" i was at the helm that night , i had prepared to die ,
" and then , in the darkness , we heard breakers , " we were near land "
it was the 6th of november , 1528 ,
at dawn , they came inshore ,
but the boat capsized in the surf ,
too weak to swim , some of the men were drowned
they found themselves on a windswept shore unseen before by white men ,
galveston island , texas ,
how far up do you think they went ?
you know , given how weak he was , i don 't think he probably went much further than you 're going .
0ne of them climbed an oak tree to see where they were ,
- i can see it !
i can see the bay !
- yeah .
i think they guessed the island was about half a league wide .
maybe a mile and a half or so . that would be about right , would it ?
- at the widest point .
- yeah .
and then they could actually , on a good , clear day like today , see the mainland across the bay .
and you recognise that you 're on an island .
but the island was inhabited by karankawa indians .
they were hunter gatherers and they only came here during the fall .
they usually left at the end of february and the beginning of march and would return to the mainland and ...
but this was what you might call their winter residence , like the new yorkers go to florida .
" we had expected to be sacrificed , " says cabeza de vaca ,
" but when the indians saw our misery they sat down with us and began to weep , too ,
" those uncivilised , savage men were sorry , for us ,
" and they shared what little food they had "
you know , you look at all these great expeditions of the conquistadors and the terrible events that happened in the new world , pizarro and everything else .
and here is a story where the man begins here on this spot
- to become the other , doesn 't he ?
- exactly .
and it 's the indians who give him the first clue to this transformation , isn 't it ?
they cry for him and he realises the common humanity , don 't you think ?
they saw people destitute , in pain .
they were moved by compassion to help them and aid them in the process and so they saved cabeza de vaca , to their own detriment .
it 's ...
- they were exterminated in the end . - they were .
the karankawas began to die of european diseases that same winter ,
they vanished for good in the course of the 18th century ,
but they kept cabeza de vaca alive with the food of the island
that 's razor sharp .
so there 's an oyster bed running all the way down this little inlet ?
yes , and there are places out here where there are oysters for several miles and , during low tide , they 're exposed , probably at the time when they harvested them .
i don 't know how many people they were trying to feed , but i wouldn 't starve .
the expedition had been scattered to the winds ,
the men from another barge were slaughtered by indians up the coast , one group reduced to eating their dead shipmates ,
but cabeza de vaca survived on oysters and roots ,
this plant ...
this is a cattail .
and this is probably what he was speaking of when he said that he was breaking those nuts off to eat .
it is like a nut .
extraordinary .
it was easy pickings .
they could just walk out and pick it up and there are acres and acres of oysters that are exposed at low tide .
but of the 300 men who left florida , only four would survive ,
( tann0y ) please do not walk or stand in front of any vehicle while the vessel is approaching ... ( michael ) the karankawas were nomadic , in the spring , they crossed over to the mainland
and they took cabeza de vaca with them ,
they had thought him a superior man , but with no skills , he was an extra mouth to feed and he became their slave ,
he was brutally treated , but they kept him alive ,
after five or six years of that life , cabeza de vaca decided he 'd had enough .
it was time to escape .
not out to sea , but into the interior .
the interior of texas at that time was completely unknown to the outside world
but during those years , cabeza de vaca had got to know many of the nomadic tribes who lived inland
some of them he describes for the first time ,
coahuiltecans , tonkawas , atakapan ,
but that was not all , he 'd also discovered that one of the coastal tribes had sheltered three other survivors of the shipwreck , who were still alive ,
they met up and made their break for freedom ,
their plan was to walk 1,000 miles to mexico city ,
they couldn ' t go south because of hostile tribes ,
so they decided to walk to the pacific , but which way ?
it used to be thought that they took a northern route through new mexico and a rizona , down into spanish mexico ,
but there 's another possibility - that they crossed the rio grande near the sea and turned west inside mexico ,
the clues are in cabeza de vaca 's book , 0ne of the few copies to survive is in san marcos , and there i met don 0lsen ,
so this is an original copy of cabeza de vaca 's story ?
yes , it is .
and the page we 're most interested in , in the research we did , is page 40 .
there are four physical clues , all that happen on the same page here .
there 's a mountain of seven leagues , which would be 20 or 21 miles long .
" una sierra de sieta leguas . " yes .
and the stones there were like scoria of hierro .
- iron slag . - iron slag .
down near the bottom of the page , he finds some trees .
pines with pinones .
and there again you see the pinones .
and the words that really catch our eye down there are right there .
that means their shells were very thin .
so this is a very particular kind of pine tree .
a very particular kind .
the other two clues are much harder .
he says , " they gave us many small sacks of margarita and alcohol molido . "
now , those are minerals .
people before us have translated that word , or transcribed it , i should say , as margarita , which can mean pearls or pearl mica , which is abundant in the deserts of arizona and new mexico and they 've used this to support the northern route .
if you look closely , do you see what i see ? that word is not margarita .
- the second r isn 't the same as the first r .
it has a descender down to the left which prints very faintly .
you see it there ?
if you look closely , you see it 's actually margaxita with an x .
margaxita .
what does that mean ?
- what that means is iron pyrites .
- iron pyrites .
so the spaniards walked into a land rich in minerals , to follow them , we crossed the rio grande and entered the desolate landscape of horthern mexico ,
, searching for cabeza de vaca 's route into unknown america , just over there .
( reads spanish ) " we marched along , mountain range seven leagues long . "
they walked the whole length of this sierra in one day .
they were the first europeans to walk across the continent ,
they gave us the first account of the people here ,
but it 's never been traced on the ground
maybe we can ask them about the pine trees .
do you want to roll your window down ?
( speak spanish )
much of his story , is still misunderstood because we don 't know for sure what route he took ,
we 're looking for the pinones with very , very thin shells .
if we knew his route , then his account might begin to reveal a lost history , of these lands , and now , as then , local knowledge is all ,
- the old man knows about them .
- ( they speak spanish )
muchas gracias .
gracias .
bye-bye .
- so the old man knew about them ?
- yeah .
fantastic .
great .
we 're on the right track .
the old herder had sent us on to a dried-up river bed and there were the pine trees ,
- so this is one of them ?
- yeah .
it 's amazing to think that paper shell pinon was only identified by science in 1979 .
and how easy to imagine the spaniards feasting on the kernels ,
- there 's still some on the floor .
- yeah .
it was the best food they 'd had for days ,
- this year is not ... was not a good season .
- yeah ?
when they 're still green , you just grind them up , make a ball and eat them , if they 're dry , eat them with the shells too ,
( crunching )
you see how thin it is .
that 's what cabeza de vaca 's talking about .
that 's what the indians here used as food along with the nopal cacti that we passed on the way .
but to clinch his route , we needed to find his mountain of iron ,
the locals sent us up a place called mercado , the hill of wealth , 5,000 ... more than 5,000 feet up the mountain .
cabeza de vaca says the people here smelted metals ,
they gave him a worked copper bell ,
there are copper deposits here and there 's also a huge quarry ,
it 's golden brown with iron ore , strewn with pyrites and iron slag ,
so this whole vast excavation here has been done for the iron ?
yes , they 've dug out this , made the hole .
then some rocks have fallen in from the sides .
( michael ) some of the other clues you might be able to help on , as a geologist .
they find something , which everybody argues over .
they call it alcohol molido , powdered alcohol , which some people say could be stibnite , lead sulphide .
there 's also black manganese around the outside here .
it 's called pyrolusite .
the indians used it as paint .
and that 's exactly what cabeza de vaca says ,
" a black powder used by indian women to paint their faces , "
0k .
i found it .
hey , we 've got some manganese here .
fantastic .
so you think this could be it ?
well , it 's the kind of manganese we call pyrolusite and it sure comes off black .
wow .
brilliant .
i left monclova feeling sure cabeza de vaca had come this way ,
he wasn 't moving through the nomadic peoples of central texas ,
he was among the settled communities here in north mexico ,
people who lived in houses , worked metals and had long-distance trade ,
the ancestors of today 's people ,
the next few weeks , he tells us , they walked 300 or 400 miles across dry plains into barren mountains ,
they were heading northwards now , back up towards the rio grande , but they weren 't wandering aimlessly ,
they spoke the languages and moved from one community to another on ancient trails , which now crossed and recrossed a great river ,
these trails are marked on us military , maps from the 1850s , 0ne of them was called the great comanche trail ,
going back down into mexico , it met the rio grande at the grand indian crossing ,
these trails can be thousands of years old , maybe even used by the first migrants over 12,000 years ago ,
we took an expert guide with us , linda walker , and team archeologist bob mallouf .
and all along the trail , we found places where human beings had once lived
cabeza de vaca 's journey had begun to reveal the vanished map of ancient america ,
the sheltered part and it probably ran further out .
this is one of the better pictograph sites that we 've come up to .
you can see that they 're all over this panel .
( b0b ) those are beautiful pictographs .
late prehistoric pictographs .
- what 's late prehistoric ?
- 500 ad to as late as 1550 .
0n the basis of art size .
we could still make out the finger marks of the artists ,
what are they depicting ?
this looks like something with legs .
uh , it ...
they 're difficult or impossible , as a rule , to interpret accurately , although a lot of people try . 0h .
so could any of these be religious in significance ?
we can probably assume that they practised certain kinds of shamanistic religion .
certainly with healers and this sort of thing .
this was the kind of religion that cabeza de vaca and his friends encountered along this route .
and they thought cabeza de vaca was a shaman .
they went to him to become healed and they would go to him just like people would go to a medical doctor today and it 's possible that could have saved their lives .
what 's the lifestyle of these people ?
- well , they 're ... - ( linda ) hard .
there wouldn 't have been great hospitality at the table in the evening .
( b0b ) we have hard archaeological evidence that they would eat just about anything they could get their hands on .
bob 's hard evidence came from the ancient human excrement in the rubbish dumps on these camp sites ,
when cabeza de vaca said they were eating worms and spiders , he wasn 't telling lies ,
the spanish gentleman was tasting the life most humans had lived since the stone age ,
that night we found a campsite overlooking the desert , , on the great prehistoric route into central america ,
the place was an abandoned indian settlement ,
we found grinding holes , just as cabeza de vaca describes ,
these are probably 2,000 ... 3,000 bc to as late as 500 ad .
see they 're very tapered ... so you have a wooden pounder and pound the seeds or whatever you used inside .
seeds , mesquite beans , things like that they would ground .
they would ground up in these and powder them to make meal .
- wonderful .
- these are good examples .
cabeza de vaca says these holes were used to grind mesquite beans to make the hallucinogens for the indian ceremonies ,
he also describes the way they cooked food
( linda ) look at that .
boiling the water with hot stones from the fire ,
that is hot .
i 've never seen that done .
- 0oh .
- there we go .
so they do this because they don 't have ceramics .
they don 't have ...
they can 't put a pot on the fire to heat water .
probably because they moved about frequently .
pottery is not very conducive to a lot of movement in this country especially , because it 's so rocky and it 's easily broken .
- so where are the teabags ?
- come on .
- english breakfast or earl grey ?
- i don 't know .
( linda ) you guys are supposed to be the experts on this , michael .
as cabeza de vaca said , " how diverse and strange are human beings and their ways , "
the four men had now reached the very , middle of the continent , but did they still feel like conquistadors ?
did cabeza de vaca , the gentleman ?
he had the chance to see this world before it was destroyed by the conquistadors and exploiters who followed but how much he leaves unsaid
( linda ) some burritos ?
( michael ) yeah , that 'd be great , thanks .
0ne thing that i keep wondering about as we 're travelling in the footsteps of cabeza de vaca is that he 's away for seven or eight years ...
you 've got some ?
great .
... and he tells us all sorts of fascinating things about the indians , but he never speaks about his or any of his friends ' relationships with the women .
i don 't think he would have lived that long in a native society without having taken on a woman and i suspect it wasn 't one that was just a short-term scenario either .
it was probably the first infusion of spanish blood into america .
you can bet he wouldn 't mention it , though .
it would have caused him problems with the church probably .
he had to write this to the audience that were now feeding him , which was spain .
and he doesn 't want them to think that he just ditched spanish values and went native .
and went , " these values that i was raised with i 've now decided are suspect . "
no , i don 't think he could do that , but i concur with you .
i think there was an unwritten story there .
and so they continued , following the sun , across the ridges of the sierra madre ,
" though we could speak six indian languages , " says cabeza de vaca , " we found 1,000 differences in their ways of speech ,
" but we were always understood and kept our authority with the indians ,
" though still naked , shedding our skin twice a year like snakes , "
( linda ) this is a tenaha .
this would hold water year round .
it can be anywhere as deep as ten feet , or as shallow as a foot and a half , but there 's always water there .
- ( michael ) and it 's good water ?
- good water .
( traditl0nal f0lk music plays ) and we finally reached the little town of san carlos ,
enrique .
hi . how are you ?
good to see you .
we finally made it .
- do you want a beer ?
- i 'd love one .
( sings in spanish )
- a thrill .
- yup .
you know what ?
it was sure fun .
it had been fun , but it had also told us more about cabeza de vaca and the man he was becoming ,
something has happened to him .
he has been transformed somehow .
he is no long either an indian and he is no longer a spaniard and a christian .
he is a new man .
you speak of him as a man situated in between those two cultures .
i suppose , in a sense , he 's the first modern man , in a way .
do you think ?
learned something that very few spaniards knew , that the indians were human beings .
and many in spain didn 't want human beings at that time .
they wanted slaves .
everywhere on their journey now , they were treated as people with powers , people who could heal ,
to we modern people , this is the least believable part of his story ,
and even in his day , he was accused of fantasising , and worse , claiming supernatural powers ,
" the indian healers do their cures like this , " he says , " by blowing on the sick person and then using their hands to cast the illness out ,
" we did the same , but with the sign of the cross , praying to god to make them better , " and he did
( w0man speaks spanish )
( translat0r ) this is the sacred heart of jesus .
he appears to me when i cure the sick .
0h , and this , this is my protection against the evil spirits who can harm me .
absolutely wonderful mixture of christian symbols and yet the way of working with them is much more traditional and mexican .
it touches back to what was the religion of the whole of the americas in ancient times , this sort of shamanistic religion .
in a sense , cabeza de vaca was the first person to try and cross the boundary between the two and use them both .
" it pleased god to give them health , " says cabeza de vaca , as a 16th-century , man would
" in the future , " he wrote to the king of spain , " these lands will be brought to the true faith , " and though my story , may be difficult to believe , i assure your majesty it is the truth , "
and however we might explain it , thousands of indians clung to them now , asking for their blessings , walking with them through the wilderness ,
the natives were astonished that cabeza de vaca and his friends could walk for a whole day without needing food , " but by then , " says cabeza de vaca , " we were so inured to suffering that we felt no fatigue . "
their guides now led them towards another great native trade route across the americas - the shell trail , which came down from the pueblos of a rizona and new mexico all the way to the pacific ,
" we saw many towns now , " says cabeza de vaca , " built by civilised people , "
they were near the ruined city of casas grandes ,
this astonishing place was once a centre of the shell trade ,
the archaeologists found a ton and a half of shells in these warehouses .
shells for grinding up , for use as decoration on the face of the walls .
shells for personal adornment , necklaces , bracelets .
shells like the pink spondylos , which was used for religious rituals all the way along the pacific coast down to south america .
this place was abandoned a century before cabeza de vaca 's day .
but the commerce and the trade routes on which it was carried still continued .
winter was coming on now as they climbed out of the plains ,
their last hurdle , the immense fissured landscape around copper canyon ,
0ne of the biggest native groups in the americas still lives here , the tarahumara ,
" the people here are the most open and intelligent folk i met , " says cabeza de vaca ,
" their women more modestly and better dressed than in any other part of the indies we 'd seen , "
the tarahumara are descendents of the peoples who once spread all over the high plains of horthern mexico ,
they have borrowed from the europeans only a handful of useful things - the violin , the goat , the apple tree and the metal ploughshare ,
a plow ...
there are no roads through their lands , you still have to go on foot ,
they call themselves the people who walk straight , and they mean in their hearts , as well as with their feet ,
by now cabeza de vaca had seen the first signs of the spanish presence , an indian wearing a sword hilt as an amulet ,
his world was not far off ,
this is where we 'll be sleeping tonight .
and jolly comfy it looks , too .
he knew now he must leave the indian world
but however much he wanted to , he also knew that what he was leaving behind had true worth ,
reading his account , i think that he remained a christian gentleman ,
he still believed in the civilising mission of spain , but he was no longer a conquistador ,
if you had to explain to somebody what it is about this life that is so good , what would the things be that they think are so valuable ?
( speaks spanish )
he had understood that the peoples of the americas were human , too ,
as the tarahumara would put it , cabeza de vaca had learned to walk straight ,
he said , " what 's good about life is that there 's goat shit .
" there 's goat droppings and that 's good , " because we put it on the land , so that the corn will be born to make tortillas with , " to make pinole with and to make tesguino with . "
i said , " why do you make tesguino ? " he says , " to have a fiesta . "
so that you can dance this special dance they do all night , so that god will bring water .
" why do you need water ? " he says , " so that the corn ... will be born . "
there 's the circle . if we kept asking , it would go round .
- fantastic .
- ( speaks tarahumara dialect )
( b0b ) they don 't walk straight any more .
so people like me , we don 't walk straight any more ?
he says , " not hardly at all .
sorry . "
but how would cabeza de vaca use his knowledge on his return ?
the odyssey of cabeza de vaca was drawing to its close ,
that winter they came down forested canyons towards the pacific ,
after more than 2,000 miles , he was about to reenter the world he 'd once known ,
" we came down into a wonderful landscape , " he says , " fertile with rivers , forests and fields ,
" nowhere in the world , in our eyes , could be so rich and beautiful ,
( calls 0ut in spanish )
cabeza de vaca ran into spanish slave hunters ,
it 's a moment which has been portrayed in novels and films ,
( yelling )
and so cabeza de vaca met his old self the man he 'd been all those years before ,
they threatened to enslave his indian companions and to kill him , but he stood his ground and forced them to let him and his indians go ,
and finally , nearly ten years after he left cuba , he walked like a ghost into the town of culiacan , to the astonishment of the local spanish colonists ,
they had been the first people to walk across the continent ,
they 'd seen things no outsider had ever seen ,
but there 's no happy ending to his story ,
when he got back to spain , he argued for benevolent rule in the americas ,
but he was ruined by his enemies and he died a pauper , his only legacy , the book of his adventures ,
while he 'd been lost , the world had changed as never before ,
the conquistadors had carried their swords from florida to chile ,
their bravery , and their greed had led them to lake titicaca and to the heights of machu picchu ,
and the cost ?
ancient civilisations overthrown ,
tens of millions dead from european violence and disease , and the plundering of the natural world of the americas ,
( m0nks chanting )
back in spain , these events woke the conscience of the age and people now began to question the justice of conquest ,
all the great civilisations had treated people not of their own colour or creed as alien ,
but now , in catholic spain , these assumptions were questioned did the indians have human rights ?
what does it mean to be human ?
in 1550 , the king 's counsellors gathered here in valladolid to listen to two great figures of the age , the dominican las casas , speaking for the indians , and the philosopher sepulveda , for the mission of imperial spain ,
this is where the debate was held .
it 's quite a moment in the history of the world .
the first time that principles of universal human rights and global justice were worked out took place here .
sepulveda concluded by saying this - that human beings are not equal , that some are superior to others and that the inhabitants of the new world were natural slaves because they were barbarous and inhumane .
" how can it be doubted that they have been justly conquered " by our most humane nation , which excels in every kind of virtue ? "
las casas spoke second .
staggered in , an enormous pile of documentation , 40 years of research .
the king 's counsellors ' jaws must have dropped .
must have thought he was going to talk for days and he did .
he talked for five days .
and the nub of his argument was this - that the conquests in the new world were wrong and had to be stopped , that the only way was peaceful conversion through love and kindness .
" there 's no nation on earth , " he said , " no matter how savage , cannot attain humane civilisation .
" all the peoples of the world are human beings .
" and the definition of a human being " is that we are all rational things .
" we share the same faculties of will and capacities and understanding .
" we all take pleasure in goodness .
" the war against the natives of the new world is wrong " because it is unjust to wage war against our fellow humans .
" and all the peoples of the world are human . "
( bell rings )
the king listened he ordered a stop to the conquests while the issue was debated further ,
but he couldn ' t stop history , 0n the ground , the conquests continued , driven , as ever , by the lust for gold
and what of the conquistadors themselves , the men who won the new world
what did they think , looking back ?
he died in ...
stuart sterling 's ancestor was one of them ,
he fought in the battles in peru , saw atahualpa dead , married an inca princess , but he had blood on his hands ,
he wrote this extraordinary document , which he addressed to king philip ii .
0n his deathbed , aged 78 , he addressed to the king a remarkable confession ,
" i , captain mancio seirra de leguizamo , make this my last will and testament .
" firstly , for the peace of my soul , i declare for many years now " i have wanted to speak to his catholic majesty , to king philip .
" i wish your majesty to understand the motive that moves me to say this
" is the peace of my conscience , because of the guilt i share .
" for we have destroyed , by our evil deeds , such a government as was enjoyed by these natives " and now they have come to such a pass that these natives , from doing no evil , " have changed to people who now do no good .
" and so i have unburdened my conscience .
" there is nothing more i can do to alleviate these injustices , other than by these words ,
" for i 'm the last to die of the conquistadors . "
in the winter of 1527 , a boat arrived at a lonely island off the pacific shore of south america ,
it had come to rescue a ragged band of desperadoes who 'd been searching the unknown for lands of gold
their leader was an old conquistador called francisco pizarro ,
pizarro still believes that somewhere to the south there 's an undiscovered world .
but his men now have had enough of his promises .
they just want to get out .
" he 's a butcher , a savage !
get us off this hellish beach ! "
then pizarro gets up and he takes his sword and ... draws a line in the sand .
" friends and comrades , " he said , " this side of the line is danger , death , hunger , abandonment .
" this side of the line , comfort and safety .
" that side of the line , go back to panama and you 'll be poor .
" cross over this side and you 'll be rich beyond your wildest dreams . "
13 of them cross over - the glorious 13 , they called them .
they would participate in one of the most amazing events in history - the conquest of an empire which until that moment was unknown to the whole world , the empire of the incas .
unlike the europeans , the incas still lived in sacred time ,
for them , the sun was god and every , day they worshipped his first appearance from the bitter andean night ,
" and we thought this was the whole world , " said one of them ,
" for we knew of ho other , "
until the spanish came ,
in 1532 , pizarro returned to peru with a small private army ,
with him were the survivors from his island , his hometown friends and four of his brothers , as close-knit as a mafia clan ,
ahead of them lay a vast empire and the great inca himself atahualpa ,
in november 1533 , after months of trekking south ,
pizarro reached the foot of the andes ,
we set out to follow in his footsteps ,
( he greets her in spanish )
at first , the local people fed the strangers ,
pizarro himself slept in their houses ,
i 'll be reasonably comfortable !
i shouldn 't have imagined a mattress .
he taught spanish to two indians so he could converse in quechua , the inca language ,
the spanish gathered their first impressions of this great state and its people ,
" how rational the indians are , " said p izarro 's secretary ,
" the people seem very , obedient to their rulers , "
here , the spaniards tasted potatoes for the first time ,
along with more exotic dishesl
there 's an old story that in ancient inca times , there was a period of famine .
the people were starving .
they discovered this furry rodent among the rocks .
it was good to eat and it saved them .
they only eat it for special festivals - religious festivals and so on .
they 're doing it today because they 've got a foreign guest .
next day , we loaded up to follow pizarro into the andes ,
it 's an unbelievable thought - pizarro had 62 horse and 102 foot plus some native allies from further up the coast .
he 's entering an empire of five or ten million !
maybe if he knew , he would go back !
he hadn 't seen the inca army , had he ?
amazing .
amazing .
he 's a canny character , pizarro .
illiterate , middle-aged , tough as old boots .
and very , very clever .
he understood that the incas were a civilisation that , for all its wonders , would be at the level of the bronze age and that with guns and toledo swords he could strike where it really hurt .
the roads of the inca empire stretched 3,000 miles , from chile to ecuador ,
and this one led to the camp of the inca himself at the town of cajamarca ,
" we followed a narrow steep path , " the spanish said , " straight up to the mountain peaks , "
it 's still there , with its inca steps ,
look at this !
is this inca , ricardo ?
nobody but the incas made this kind of work .
look .
i 've got the account of pizarro 's secretary of their journey up this pass . he says how steep the pass was .
when they got to the top , it was defended by a fortress surrounded by stone walls , built on a hill with very steep rocks on either side .
that 's it !
we 're on his tracks !
- almost nobody knows this place in peru .
- really ?
it 's amazing .
the spaniards were seeing things no outsider had ever seen ,
the last moments of a world untouched since the dawn of history ,
after five days ' march over the mountains ,
pizarro came out above the town of cajamarca ,
the campfires of the enemy that night were a terrifying sight , the spanish said .
" like a brilliantly star-studded sky . "
atahualpa 's army , they reckoned , was 30,000 strong ,
the spaniards were on edge now ,
why had they been allowed to come on unopposed
were they walking into a trap ?
pizarro 's secretary , tells the tale ,
" few of us slept that night .
we just talked about what we should do .
" all were full of fear , for we were so few , and so deep into the land .
" and with no hope of rescue . "
the inca , atahualpa , was taking the waters at the hot springs outside the town , and it was here that the two worlds first met ,
the spanish advance party told a tahualpa that pizarro loved him dearly and would fight for him against his enemies ,
" and he smiled , " said the spanish ,
" as if he didn ' t think much of us , "
atahualpa told them they could stay in the town ,
0minously , when the spanish entered the town , they found it empty ,
they occupied a building on the square and waited to see what the inca would do ,
atahualpa 's spies had been watching them all the way ,
his chief spy , apu , reported back ,
we know , from several chroniclers , what apu reported .
he reported to his boss the following .
- 0ne , they are not gods .
- not gods ?
- the inca knew that .
- doesn 't mean the people knew that .
0k ? " i have seen them , " said apu , " i have seen how they get tired . "
0r sick . and a few of them died .
gods don 't die .
they don 't get sick .
but they decided a plan .
they said let 's kill them all except three of them , who are going to be castrated .
the horse-breaker ,
- the iron man ...
- the blacksmith ?
the guy who does the horseshoes and the weaponry .
and the barber .
the horse-breaker and the other one , of course , to establish the cavalry of atahualpa .
but the barber because , apu said , " he knows something .
he has powers .
" i have seen the people lining up in front of his tent .
" they 're tired , really messed up .
" and when they come out , i have seen them rejuvenated , " fresh , health , " and with their skin fresh as a baby 's butt . "
yeah !
atahualpa wanted to have pizarro for lunch .
but pizarro had him for breakfast !
down in the square , as the hours passed , the spanish still waited
" and i tell you , " said one of them , " we were wetting ourselves in terror , "
at last , atahualpa entered the square on the shoulders of his courtiers ,
he was around 30 , handsome and intelligent , the red royal tassel on his forehead and a silky soft cloak made of the skins of vampire bats ,
it 's funny what people remember at such moments of high tension ,
the spanish remembered the lilting song with which the people welcomed him ,
it 's still sung today at festivals in the andes ,
( rhythmic chant )
pizarro watched with his captains and his priest , valverde ,
atahualpa took his seat in the middle of the square ,
valverde stepped forward with a cross and a prayer book and made a speech about christ and the pope .
he called upon the inca to abandon his false religion and embrace christ .
" i follow my religion , " said atahualpa .
" the undying sun and the ancient gods of the incas .
" what is your authority for your religion ? " he said .
the priest held up his book .
" give it to me , " said atahualpa ,
" so i may see if it speaks to me . "
he turned the pages carefully and then looked up .
" why does it say nothing to me ? " he said , and he threw the book on the floor .
that was what pizarro had been waiting for .
it was the moment on which his whole career had converged .
it gave him his pretext for war and he gave the order to attack .
from the porticos all around this square the spanish came out and opened fire on the masses of people crowded here .
inca sticks and fans were no match for spanish guns and steel ,
some said 6,000 people died that night ,
as the rain fell , the square ran red with blood
but atahualpa was captured alive ,
they took him in chains to a prison close-by ,
it 's still there ,
and now atahualpa made an astonishing offer - to ransom himself
if they would set him free , he would fill the room with gold
0n his desert island , had p izarro ever imagined this ?
in his wildest dreams ? the story 's still told and retold across the andes ,
but there are other inca versions of the story , 0ne of them a unique manuscript discovered only in the 20th century ,
( man ) thank you very much .
this is it , the famous " nueva cronica y buen gobierno . "
it 's really exciting to be facing this document , a document which is unique .
because here , you not only see things that are valuable for the past , but also things that will help you to understand the present .
the author , guaman poma , was a man of inca descent ,
( 0ssl0 ) this is the point of view of a vanquished .
0f one of those indians who were conquered by the spanish people .
he 's always insisted that the real owners of the indian territories are the indians and the spaniards are the owners of spain .
and each one in their own realm is perfect .
0rder is perfect .
but if the spanish come here and pretend to be the owners , then that is representing the disorder of the world .
the world is upside down .
- ( w00d ) the world is upside down ?
- yeah .
to gather the gold , atahualpa ordered his people to allow the spanish to travel freely through his empire ,
and the spaniards set out on the greatest plundering raid in history ,
so why did a tahualpa do it ?
according to guaman poma , the inca had never seen the strangers as a threat , now , he thought , if he delivered the gold as promised ,
pizarro would simply go away ,
" at that time , " says guaman poma , " we indians lost all sense of direction , we forgot our gods " and lost the authority of our rulers , "
so pizarro 's men stripped the gold off the greatest shrines in the americas ,
atahualpa filled his ransom room with seven tonnes of it , one of the greatest treasures in all of history ,
he 'd kept his word but what would p izarro do ?
pizarro put atahualpa on trial for treason , the jury , - the pizarro brothers and their friends ,
the verdict - " the inca must die , "
" it was the most despicable thing we ever did in the americas , " said one conquistador ,
in the andes , the people have never forgotten ,
( he speaks quechua )
corazon ?
the heart of a puma , si ?
they killed him like a llama .
for the incas , these events were almost beyond belief
this was a " pachacuti " - the world turned upside down ,
pizarro now marched his army in triumph south , on the inca royal road , a thousand miles to the capital of the inca empire , cuzco ,
" 0n november 15th , 1533 ,
" we spaniards reached cuzco ,
" it was a wondrous thing to behold
" no prize ever equalled this ,
" the streets were grand , " the palaces of finely-jointed stone blocks of great antiquity , "
it was the richest town in all the indies , founded by the first inca and refounded in 1533 by francisco pizarro ,
and so , at last , pizarro looked down on his prize ,
the city of the incas , with its great ceremonial square and the huge palaces of the inca royal clans ,
it was a turning point in the history , of the world
the inca believed this place was the navel of the earth .
it was the sacred centre of the last of the civilisations to arise independently on the planet .
and the fall of the city to the spanish , coming so soon after the fall of mexico , seems now like the beginning of the end for the traditional civilisations of the world .
the end of sacred time .
the triumph of profane time .
for pizarro 's expedition was a profit - making venture backed by the bankers of europe ,
from now on , across the atlantic , the talk was of hothing but peru and gold
europe was amazed spaniards flooded into peru on a gold rush ,
the pizarro brothers flaunted their new-found fortunes ,
for them , these were days of wonder as they tightened their grip on the people and the riches of p eru ,
to win hearts and minds , the pizarros appointed a puppet king , atahualpa 's half-brother manco ,
but the spaniards treated him with contempt ,
to the incas ' horror , gonzalo pizarro raped manco 's wife and took her for himself
word soon spread of a war of liberation ,
manco summoned his leaders to a secret meeting ,
perhaps it took place in the inca sun temple which still stands today inside a cuzco church ,
manco 's words were recorded by his son tito cusi ,
" i 've summoned you all here , " said manco , " because we all know now clearly who these foreigners really are .
" they 're not worthy people sent by god , " but children of the devil .
" we 've endured a thousand insults , they treat us like dogs " while swearing to be our friends .
" now i want you to send your messengers throughout the whole country .
" summon all your forces to gather here in cuzco in 20 days ' time " to attack them .
" make sure the bearded ones hear nothing about this " and we 'll kill every last one of them .
" then , perhaps , we may waken from this nightmare . "
manco 's plan was a concerted attack all over peru , above cuzco , a vast inca army gathered in the hills ,
the spaniards were surrounded cut off in lima , francisco pizarro sent frantic pleas to mexico for help ,
three relief columns were wiped out by manco 's armies , here in cuzco ,
spanish survival hung on whether they could take the inca fortress which controlled the city at sacsayhuaman ,
the spaniards were outnumbered and , at times , outfought ,
juan pizarro was killed but in the end , the incas were outgunned
the last battle for these walls was fought with a desperate heroism by the inca warriors .
like the aztec battle for mexico city , it recalls the great classical epics like the " iliad , " the siege of troy .
the last of the great inca heroes , they say , stood on top of these rocks armed with a european sword , throwing the spanish off , killing members of his own side if they thought of surrendering to the spaniards .
in the end , when it was clearly all hopeless , he threw his weapons down , stuffed his mouth with earth , scourged his face and threw himself off the rocks in fulfilment of his vow that he would die rather than give in to the spanish .
" and so our encirclement was broken , " says guaman poma ,
" the spaniards had bought themselves a breathing space , "
the pizarros now took savage reprisals against the civilian population , the women and children who helped manco 's army ,
a massive exodus followed as those who could fled north into the sacred valley ,
the sacred valley was the inca heartland
here they built their finest palaces with huge terraces to grow maize and coca leaves ,
here , manco and his high priest could call on the help of the ancestors ,
at machu picchu , the mummies of the dead incas could be brought out of their womb-like chambers to greet the sun ,
their dead eyes regaled as in life with the vistas of the sacred peaks ,
- ~ buenos dias !
- ~ buenos dias !
according to guaman poma , manco built new terraces and houses here to feed and shelter the influx of troops and refugees ,
you can still see them at 0llantaytambo , with its inca housing plots and water channels ,
the incas boasted that manco had made this the strongest fortress in all peru ,
and it was here that the pizarros launched their next attack ,
they fought their way through the narrow lanes of the town ,
then they attacked the fortress which towers above ,
the spaniards now sent their force of commandos up to try and seize the rocks above the fortress .
hernando pizarro led the assault up these steps while the incas rained down missiles , spurred on by manco , who rode the terraces above on a spanish horse ,
" suddenly , the indians hit us from every , side ,
" to hear the roar of their army ,
" it was as if the mountain was about to crash on top of us , "
for the first time , the spanish had been beaten in a pitched battle ,
" 0ne more day and we would have killed them all , " said tito cusi ,
" my father 's men laughed heartily at the spanish rout " and how we celebrated our victory , "
manco planned to make a new cuzco here in the sacred valley ,
he even built a great council chamber , carved with the royal pumas ,
" by such monuments , he hoped to be remembered always , " said guaman poma ,
but manco knew that spanish colonists were pouring into peru every , month ,
within a year , manco realised he would have to pull right out of spanish reach , to the jungles the far side of the andes ,
peru would be partitioned
it must have been a heartbreaking moment for the young inca ,
when manco had decided to retreat up the valley into the jungles of vilcabamba he made a speech to his loyal followers .
a moving speech , too , a little like bonnie prince charlie going over the sea to skye .
he asked them to remember his ancestors , the incas of the past , had been good rulers , had cared for the people and provided for them .
" don 't forget that , " he said .
" don 't let your children forget it . "
then he said these extraordinary words which are all the more striking now .
" i know , " he said , " that one day , in the future , " the time will come when they will force us to worship their gods .
" and when that day comes , " do what you have to do in front of them , but in private don 't forget our ceremonies " and our gods .
" and if they try to force you to destroy our shrines , " only reveal what you have to and keep the rest hidden in your hearts . "
so the inca empire was to be divided
manco 's court and his army began their long march over the andes , demolishing the road behind them as they went , nearly 13,000 feet .
good lord !
no wonder my hands are freezing cold !
but even now , the incas still dreamed that one day they might return ,
0n the far side of the mountains , manco hoped to organise a new resistance , as manco put it , " to free the land of our forefathers , "
manco destroyed the rope bridge here , the river was to be the boundary , between the two worlds ,
but no one crossed the pizarros ,
gonzalo pizarro now prepared to hunt manco down , manco 's line of retreat had led him to a remote jungle hideaway at vilcabamba , the lost city of the incas ,
with him , gonzalo took 300 of the toughest conquistadors , more than his brother had led to cajamarca ,
we set out to follow him ,
i 've now got fleas . you may wonder why i 'm scratching my hands .
i 've been bitten by the dreaded " puma wacachi " - which is the fly that makes even the puma cry !
- it 's got me all over . it 's true !
- puma wacachi !
me wacachi !
the first stage of our trek in pizarro 's footsteps took us across bleak uplands over the last of the high passes towards amazonia ,
manco had retired to the farthest corner of the inca world to create his new kingdom ,
( men enc0urage h0rses )
- is this the pass colpa ?
- yes , this is colpa pasa .
- the colpa pasa ?
- yes .
- what does that mean ?
- that 's the highest point on the trail .
i 'll catch you up in a minute .
the colpa pass , the high pass .
about 12,400 feet .
this is the last of the passes before the road goes down and down and down towards the headwaters of the amazon and down into amazonia itself .
when the inca resistance headed this way , they were saying goodbye to their old homeland .
according to guaman poma , manco had pushed new roads into the interior , and on the second day , we found them ,
- this looks like inca steps , yeah ?
- yes , it is inca steps .
they 're quite well preserved up here .
yeah .
pizarro now scented blood
" we cannot fail to get manco now , " he said , " dead or alive , "
but pizarro was too confident and he fell into manco 's trap ,
( speaks quechua )
don juvenal told us how the incas had rolled stones down on the spaniards ,
there are still piles of rocks up there ,
36 conquistadors were killed
gonzalo was forced to retreat and wait for reinforcements before he dared push on ,
and manco taunted him ,
" i am manco inca ,
" we have killed 2,000 spaniards and we will kill you too , and free our country , "
the following day , we came down through the clouds into sodden rainforests ,
in places , landslides had taken the path away ,
such conditions must have sapped the morale even of p izarro 's hardened conquistadors ,
we came in sight of manco 's lost city ,
- this is espiritu pampa ?
- espiritu pampa .
si .
there it is , the lost valley of the incas .
the site of their last city .
it 's so secluded , so hidden , you can understand why it was never discovered until the 20th century .
you can understand too why the last of the incas thought they might be safe here , hidden away from the rest of the world .
pizarro had had to fight his way this far , but when he got here , the city was empty ,
manco had disappeared into the jungle ,
this is la plaza principal , don juvenal ?
si , plaza principal .
( d0n juvenal speaks quechua )
today , manco 's city lies scattered over a square mile of forest , so choked with vegetation it takes time to make out the shapes of the buildings ,
it 's all on such a huge scale .
this is the terracing of the great plaza in the middle of the city on which stood the temple .
they brought all their most sacred relics here from cuzco - the mummies of the last of the dead incas , and above all the most sacred relic , the golden image that symbolised the rising sun in whose chest was a heart made of dough
they brought it all here to try to rebuild their world in the jungle .
gonzalo searched these forests for two months till sickness and starvation forced him to retreat ,
by his fingernails , manco had survived
in his fury pizarro took revenge ,
he ordered manco 's wife shot with arrows and floated her down the river in a basket to be found by the incas ,
manco was grief-stricken for he had loved her very , much ,
meanwhile , pizarro 's private empire began to fall apart ,
like all mafia families , the pizarros had made bitter enemies ,
in a scene from " the godfather , " francisco , the discoverer and conqueror of p eru , was murdered by the son of his first business partner ,
manco , meanwhile , had made his new capital at a place called vitcos ,
fantastic !
there 's the vilcabamba river .
the spanish described the place as being on a high mountain with wonderful views over the province of vilcabamba .
0n top , they say , was a substantial flat area where majestic and sumptuous buildings had been erected with great skill and art .
you can see their ruins even from this distance .
manco held court here for seven years ,
the spaniards were now fighting among themselves and he sheltered enemies of the pizarros ,
but there was a price on the inca 's head , and in the end they got him ,
this is all that remains of manco 's palace .
here 's the finely-sculpted lintels that the spaniards mentioned .
and here 's the plaza where it all happened .
manco was about to play a game of quoits with horseshoes with his spanish guests , a game he liked .
his son tito cusi tells the story .
" my father was about to throw , " he said , " when one of the spaniards stabbed him in the back .
" he tried to defend himself , but there were seven of them and he was unarmed .
" they stabbed him and stabbed him .
i wanted to defend him , " tito says , " but i was only nine years old .
" they turned on me and i was terrified and ran off into the bushes .
" though i was wounded in the leg , i escaped .
" but my father was killed . "
manco had been the one inca who offered hope of long-term resistance .
so the inca empire ended .
the political order was destroyed .
but things exist at different levels in history .
and empires are really just on the surface of history .
below them is a much deeper structure that lasts much longer - the long-lasting , tenacious , deep-rooted culture of the people of a region , shaped by their landscape and climate .
up here in the andes , the inca people survive and the beliefs survive , just as manco inca had said .
the people themselves did not forget .
nearly 500 years on , the people of the andes still revere the ancestral spirits of the incas ,
every june , they go up in their thousands onto the glaciers of the sacred mountains ,
just before dawn , at a breathless 16,000 feet , they worship the ice of qoyllur riti , the lord of the snow star ,
and afterwards , like their inca ancestors , the people greet the rising sun ,
and then they sing the lilting song they sang to atahualpa all those years ago ,
" when the last inca is dead , " said old francisco pizarro , " the people will weary , of resistance " and take our part , "
" in the beginning , " said the aztecs , " the white men came in one boat , "
nearly 500 years ago ,
spanish adventurers landed on a small island off the coast of mexico ,
it was the first contact between the civilisations of the old world and the new ,
the prelude to one of the greatest events in history ,
it 's a story of almost incredible endurance , heroism , greed and brutality .
and all the more poignant today as we see its long-term effects unfolding across the globe .
it 's known still in the americas as the conquest , the " conquista . "
and the larger-than-life men who achieved it are the conquerors , the " conquistadors . "
" most mighty prince , " wrote hernan cortes to the king of spain ,
" let me begin at the beginning , we sailed our ships to the land called yucatan , "
cortes was a poor boy from a small town , trained in law , not war , but he had dreams ,
a self-made man , he 'd financed his own expedition - 11 ships , 500 soldiers ,
like columbus , he didn ' t know what lay ahead
he thought the land they could see beyond cuba was just islands , through which they could sail to china ,
it was april 1519 ,
gracias !
it 's hard for us to imagine the shock of the new for people of the 16th century ,
for us , it would be like landing on another planet ,
to discover that the new world also had great civilisations , with law , writing and architecture , this was a revelation ,
" what rational beings live here ? " wrote cortes ,
" this is the best and richest land that ever there was , "
the awe-struck conquistadors christened one place " el gran cairo , "
cortes headed west to the tabasco river , the frontier of the mayan and the aztec-speaking worlds ,
still perhaps unsure of his next move , he landed in frontera ,
the key to any close encounter is language , but cortes couldn ' t talk to the aztecs ,
( speaks spanish )
he 'd already found a spanish sailor who spoke mayan ,
then , here in frontera , he had his lucky break ,
cortes was given a slave girl by a local chief her name was malinali , but here in mexico everyone calls her " malinche , "
malinche spoke mayan and nahuatl , the aztec language , through her , he could talk to them ,
( w0man speaks spanish )
( translatl0n ) malinche was treated well by the spanish .
especially by cortes .
some say she fell hopelessly in love with him .
- afrodisiaco , # si ?
- si .
yes , some say she was dazzled by the power of cortes .
and how she 's paid for itl " traitor , whore , goddess of death , "
for nearly 500 years , mexicans have argued about malinche and her relationship with cortes , but malinche was the one who would lead cortes to his destiny ,
cortes sails on up the coast , malinche at his side ,
he keeps asking about gold and everywhere they tell him of a mysterious empire in the interior ,
a land called mexico ,
he anchors at an island off the coast , " the isle of sacrifices , " , just off the modern port of vera cruz ,
and it was here that cortes had his first encounter with the aztecs ,
in his letters , you can still feel his sense of wonder ,
since then , the tale has become a myth , it 's even immortalised in the movies ,
0n easter saturday 1519 , a magnificent embassy arrived from the ruler of mexico ,
even more strange , they seemed to have been expecting cortes ,
dona marina , find out who honours us in this royal manner .
yes , my lord .
( they speak nahuatl )
malinche translates their nahuatl ,
tell the royal ambassador i am pleased to welcome him to my camp .
to his amazement , the aztecs offer him wonderful gifts of gold
though cortes was pretending to be the ambassador of a great king , he couldn 't respond in kind and as gifts to the aztecs , he scraped up a chair , some trinkets and a velvet cap which their ambassador accepted , though he looked at them as if they were excrement !
then came the crucial moment in the conversation .
" do you have more gold ? " says cortes .
" because we suffer from a disease of the heart that can only be cured by gold . "
" yes , we do , " said the ambassador .
there could hardly have been a more dangerous admission .
cortes now gave the aztecs a show of his power ,
he fired his guns , rode his horses down the shore ,
the aztecs were stunned they 'd never seen such things before ,
their ambassador had his artists paint them , as we would take photographs ,
" the strangers , " he said , " have sticks which spurt fire ,
" they ride deer , high as a house , which snort and foam , "
cortes was invited to make a camp , he built a base here at villa rica ,
you can see it all from here .
the little bay , the little headland where they built their fort .
tiny , isn 't it ? just a first enclave in the new world .
but it all started from here .
and perhaps it was only now that cortes dreamed up the plan to go to the city of the aztecs ,
could he somehow get them to bow to spain ?
those nights by the sea , the locals told him of what lay ahead
how the aztec empire was built on fear and tribute ,
a tribute not only of things , but of people , 0f human hearts ,
the name of the aztec ruler was montezuma ,
but montezuma was haunted by a prophecy , a legend of an exiled god who one day would return to reclaim his throne ,
so the aztec spies urgently looked for signs ,
the strangers ' white food was it food of the gods ?
their pale faces , could they be divine ?
it sounds incredible , and it probably sounded incredible to the spanish , but aztec gods weren 't like christian ones .
they were more like the gods of the ancient greeks , capricious , wilful , mercurial , cruel .
and the most enigmatic of them all was quetzalcoatl .
and according to the legend , when quetzalcoatl was expelled from mexico , he promised that one day he would return and regain his kingdom .
that he 'd come back across that sea out to the east , back here , with his chalky white face and his beard in the aztec year 1-reed .
by an amazing chance , 52 to 1 chance this was that year !
and for the aztecs , nothing happened by chance ,
cortes 's men are getting nervous now , they know a great empire lies inland , and they know cortes wants to go there ,
he acts fast , kills the ringleader , then , so no one can get away , he decides to pull his ships up on the beach and scupper them ,
it 's a gambler 's throw , isn 't it , destroying your own ships !
they won 't talk about going home any more .
typical piece of cortes .
he knows what he needs to know about the aztecs .
but to persuade his men into the interior , he needs to hitch them to his dreams .
to leave them , as he put it , with nothing to rely on but their own hands and the assurance that they must either conquer or die .
the hesitation was over , cortes heads inland with some native allies from the coast who were keen to throw off the aztec yoke ,
he took a back road towards montezuma 's capital , tenochtitlan , hoping along the way to find friends among montezuma 's enemies ,
the towns they came through are still here - coatapec , xico ,
" every place we passed through , " says the conquistador bernal diaz , " we saw altars for human sacrifice , by some , there were thousands of skulls , "
the christian in cortes was revolted
here in xico , he told the people they must give up their idols ,
speaking in nahuatl , the aztec language ,
malinche gave a potted history of christianity .
then she explained to the people the pope gave the king of spain authority over their lands in the name of god .
there 's a story that two chiefs who heard this were prepared to believe that there was one all-powerful god , but as for the idea that the pope had given their lands to somebody else , the pope must have been drunk !
the spaniards were still trying to make sense of confusing signs ,
the stench oo blood mingled with the scent of flowers ,
familiar european categories of life and death , nurture and feeding , were upside - down ,
to quench their thirst , the spaniards were given juice bled from the fleshy white heart of the mage cactus ,
wow ! it 's absolutely beautiful .
0nly to learn this was the drink given to sacrificial victims to dull the senses of those who were about to die ,
" every , day , " says bernal diaz , " we were told they 'd kill us " and eat our flesh with chillies , " and the warm drink made from the cacao bean ,
" was prepared for the eagle warriors who feasted on the flesh of their enemies , "
whilst human sacrifice is long gone , chocolate is still drunk here at religious feasts ,
( w0man speaks nahuatl )
that 's " buenas tardes " ?
how do you say " gracias " ?
( she translates t0 nahuatl )
amazing !
and with the language , hints of aztec attitudes to love and sex ,
for all their obsession with death , the aztecs still loved life ,
( in nahuatl ) we 'd better not ... ( he repeats her w0rds )
i can 't tell you what that means !
cortes pushed on , and now we had to follow him on foot ,
" ahead of us , " says cortes , " we saw a great range oo beautiful mountains , " the peaks so white we think they must be covered with snow , "
with him , cortes had 300 conquistadors , 40 of them crossbowmen , 20 musketeers ,
there were several hundred indians , and cuban servants , and , of course , his precious horses - 15 of them ,
after a summer on the caribbean coast , the spaniards were in for a shock ,
0ne of the conquistadors , bernal diaz , said when they came into the mountains , it rained and rained .
the path turned into torrents .
all they had was their cotton armour for the tropics .
they were unprepared for the change of temperature , going up 11,000 feet .
soaking wet and freezing cold , some of their indian servants died .
so far as we know , cortes had no military , training , but he never lost the respect of those who marched with him ,
the thing you have to remember about the conquistadors is that , putting themselves through this , they were all volunteers .
they were in it not for religion but a share of the profits .
they were free men .
they acknowledged their leader 's authority but he had to pay attention to and respect them .
and they called each other " compadre . "
comrade .
they 're all in it together .
- is that the path up here ?
- eh ?
- that 's the path , is it ?
- yes .
that little path up to the top ,
cortes called it " nombre de dios " - " the name of god . "
( rain dr0wns 0ut w0rds ) 13,000 feet !
can 't see ...
~ muchas gracias !
those nights , the native women he 'd brought from the coast made them tortillas ,
some compensation ,
we have tents tonight and we are certainly going to be soaking , cold and miserable , just as hernan cortes and his men were , as bernal diaz tells the story .
those clouds are not going to lift .
as they marched deeper inland , they heard more about what lay ahead
" the locals said that to capture mexico would be impossible , " says bernal diaz , " and we would all die , " but the more they told us that , the more we longed to try , our fortune , "
after the mountains , though , things got no better ,
through autumn hailstorms , they trekked across a desolate plain of salt lakes with no food or water ,
cortes was heading for the fertile land of tlaxcala ,
tlaxcala was an independent city state ,
they hated the aztecs ,
cortes was hoping they 'd shelter him , but his luck was out ,
they attacked him in a savage battle , 0n the battlefield , they still plough up the debris ,
- buenos dias .
- buenos dias .
estoy buscando la ruta de hernan cortes .
# la batalla ?
# es aqui ?
ah !
~ si , si , si !
looks like glass , but this is obsidian .
see the sharp edge ?
they had a row of these things set into the wood of the clubs that they used .
nasty wound , but nothing like spanish steel .
" there were 149,000 of them , " cortes wrote to the king , in julius caesar mode ,
it was touch and go , he hung on grimly on this little hill for two weeks ,
then , with their own losses mounting to the spanish guns , the tlaxcalans offered him a deal ,
they welcomed him to their town and laid on a fiesta , even offered their daughters in marriage ,
the tlaxcalans had realised that these strangers with their guns could help free them from the aztecs ,
ever since , they 've been accused by other mexicans oo betraying their country , but of course , that 's not how they see it ,
( man speaks in spanish )
( translatl0n ) xicotencatl , the elder , reaches for hernan cortes who returns the embrace , but doesn 't let go of his sword .
the old xicotencatl knew the future of his people was at stake .
he believed this alliance would ensure that tlaxcalans would not disappear from the map , would not disappear from history .
the alliance of the tlaxcalans is the turning point of the whole story , the turning point in the history of the new world .
with them , cortes found allies who hated the aztecs and would fight them to the death .
allies who would give him support , provisions and manpower .
the possibility of conquering mexico was now on .
so cortes marched on , with several thousand tlaxcalan warriors behind him ,
to the greatest pilgrimage city in the americas , cholula , under the volcano popocatepetl ,
these were friends of the aztec ruler montezuma , and the tlaxcalans warned cortes to expect trouble ,
as the spanish moved through the town , they saw roadblocks in the side streets .
piles of stones heaped on the rooftops , women and children evacuated .
then malinche heard a story that a plot was being hatched to ambush cortes .
he decided on a pre-emptive strike .
he summoned the 100 lords of cholula to meet him in the temple of quetzalcoatl - it 's now the church of san gabriel - and there malinche told them in nahuatl that they 'd committed treason and they 'd die .
the doors were closed .
the spaniards killed them all .
and they killed 3,000 more cholulans assembled outside .
then their tlaxcalan allies sacked the town .
" and so death came to cholula , " says the aztec account ,
" when we got the news , we were seized with fear ,
" it was as if the earth itself were shaking , "
" my heart burns as if it ' s been washed in chillies , " said montezuma ,
from cholula , cortes continued up the old track through the forests of p opocatepetl ,
it was erupting then , as it is now ,
into the valley of mexico ,
in the distant haze , they began to make out a vast blue lake , and then , at last , far away , approached on immense causeways , was the city of cortes ' dreams ,
" it seemed like an enchanted vision , " wrote one of his men ,
" indeed , some of our soldiers asked whether it was not all a dream ,
" it was so wonderful " that i do not know how to describe this first glimpse " of things never heard of seen or dreamed oo before ,
" the city had traders and warriors , priests and lawyers , " musicians , jugglers , courtesans and scribes ,
" it was the most beautiful thing in the world , " wrote cortes ,
believe it or not , that 's where the causeway came in in the 16th century !
this is where the lake ended and the city began .
this is where cortes walked that november 1519 .
the aztec city started here .
to find the place where cortes and montezuma met , you have to go right into the commercial heart of modern mexico city ,
the site today is inside the hospital of jesus ,
to get there , you have to go through accident and emergencyl
the aztecs led the spanish into a great courtyard framed by a beautiful building that was on this spot .
the tale of that momentous meeting is told by the aztec eye-witnesses ,
this is where the two worlds met .
it 's where montezuma addressed cortes .
" 0h , my lord , " he said ,
" you are fatigued , you are weary after your long journey .
" at last you have come down to earth .
" you have come to your city of mexico which i have guarded for you for a little while .
" they said you would return , and now you have done so .
" but first , go to your palace and rest .
" and go in peace . "
mysterious words , but what do they mean ?
was this the language of aztec diplomacy ?
0r montezuma 's acceptance of destiny ?
no one knows ,
but in the aztec calendar , that day , the 8th of november , was 1-wind , the day of quetzalcoatl , a day of robbery violation and deceit ,
and the aztecs knew that nothing ever happened by chance ,
" it was as if we 'd all eaten stupefying mushrooms , " say the aztec witnesses ,
" we kept our children off the streets and the city went to sleep
" in a fearful slumber , "
the city woke as it always had
in the streets of the modern world , we can only dimly imagine its splendour ,
the flutes and conch shells greeting the dawn , the bustle of merchants , the thousands oo blooms carried each day to markets drenched in the scents of the americas ,
the spaniards were open-mouthed at the sights , the gleaming stucco of the palaces and pyramids ,
they wandered the courtyards , gawped at strange gods ,
but on the wind , with the scent of flowers , they caught the ever-present smell of death ,
and in their hearts , they feared that cortes the gambler had led them into the jaws of hell ,
montezuma , though , was still unsure who cortes was , and who his master was , the great king charles across the sea ,
so now montezuma proudly shows cortes the pyramid of the war god on whose summit thousands of captives had had their hearts cut out , perhaps the gods would recognise each other ?
trying hard to appear calm , the spaniards entered the chamber ,
the first thing the spanish noticed when they came inside was the disgusting smell .
as their eyes got used to the darkness , they saw the eyes of the aztec gods staring at them , gleaming with precious stones .
the war god , huitzilopochtli , was sitting down with a golden bow and arrow .
in front of him was a brazier full of human hearts , still warm .
all around , the walls were encrusted with dried blood .
cortes then said this to montezuma -
" i don 't understand how a prince as great as you " and a man as intelligent as you , could think that these are gods .
" they are bad things called devils " and i 'd like your permission to put a cross and a picture of the virgin mary in here . "
montezuma took offence at that .
" if i thought you were going to be so insulting to our gods , " i would never have brought you to see them .
" we hold these things to be good .
" they bring us health , harvest , rain and water " and we must sacrifice to them .
" so please don 't mention this again . "
it was quite a gulf
for the christians , god gave his blood to redeem mankind
for the aztecs , mankind must give its blood to redeem the gods ,
a week passed cortes had to act ,
he raises the stakes with an unbelievable gamble ,
at gunpoint he arrests montezuma ,
" what we want you to do is to come over to the palace where we 're lodging .
" quietly and with no fuss .
if you raise the alarm , we will kill you . "
montezuma is amazed .
nothing he learned in the palace of nobles prepared him for this .
" my person cannot be taken prisoner , " he says to cortes .
" even if i were to like it , my people would never accept it . "
the argument goes on for four hours , montezuma in tears at one point .
all the while , cortes 's captains are pacing up and down , getting more and more nervous .
0ne of them says , " either he comes with us now or we kill him now . "
and when malinche translates that , montezuma caves in .
montezuma was now in cortes ' power , maybe under his spell ,
he continued to issue orders as if things were normal , but he 'd lost the trust of his people ,
the tale has been told many times ,
how the angry , mob besieged the spanish , how cortes bullied poor broken montezuma to plead with them ,
but montezuma 's aura had drained away and his people killed him ,
the spaniards were trapped inside the city , food and water cut off ,
his dream slipping from his grasp , cortes was forced to give the order to escape ,
you have to remember the city was on an island completely surrounded by water , linked to the mainland only by three great causeways .
all the bridges had been broken by the aztecs .
so in those final few hours , the spaniards built a portable wooden bridge out of the ceiling beams of where they were staying .
they would leave at midnight .
the night was clear , with a gentle rain ,
the spaniards marched in silence , hugging their gold
half-way into the lake , they were spotted
the alarm was raised and the city woke ,
cortes was trapped the aztec witnesses name the place , today it 's by the little post office on the tacuba road
three quarters of the spaniards were left behind - 800 men - killed , drowned or captured .
the captives could expect only one fate at the hands of the enraged aztecs .
they were taken back into the city to the great pyramid .
there their hearts were cut out and offered to huitzilopochtli , the god of war .
0n the far shore , cortes gathered the survivors by a huge ceiba tree , it 's still there ,
malinche , they say , showed no emotion ,
but cortes , for once , couldn ' t control his feelings ,
they said there were tears in cortes ' eyes that night , " the night of tears . "
but of all his comrades who died , he asked after only one -
martin lopez , the shipbuilder .
when cortes heard that lopez had survived , although badly wounded , he said , " vamos .
que nada nos falta . "
" 0k , let 's go . for we lack nothing . "
" and when the spaniards had thus gone , " say the aztecs ,
" we thought they had gone for ever and would never return , "
but across the mountains , the tlaxcalans stood by cortes ,
and what he does now is one of the most amazing things in history ,
in the middle of the land , he builds a fleet ,
that 's why he needed martin lopez ,
they 're going to build 13 brigantines .
all of them are more than 40 feet long .
then they 'll take them to bits and carry them to mexico city !
what does the maestro think about this ?
( translatl0n ) they disassembled the fleet as there are no navigable rivers round here .
for mexicans , cortes was a very cruel man .
but from a buccaneering point of view , he was great !
cortes would not let go of his dream ,
and now , inexorably , the net began to tighten around the aztecs ,
cortes transports his prefabricated fleet , carried in pieces by a train of 8,000 tlaxcalan porters ,
across the mountains and back to the lake ,
0n the lake shore , he waited , reinforced now by thousands of hative allies ,
it was may 1521 ,
cortes ' moment of destiny had arrived
it was to be nothing less than a war of the worlds ,
cortes ' plan was to lay siege to the city and cut off its food and water supplies , then , supported by his ships , he would attack it along the causeways , whose line is still marked today by the main routes into the city ,
it was a new kind of warfare for the mexicans , involving the ordinary population , women and children , starving them .
this wasn 't part of war in ancient mexico , but cortes was a modern man .
it was total war , the siege lasted for 80 days ,
a quarter of a million people were reduced to eating lizards and grass ,
devastated by european diseases , the aztecs under their new king , cuauhtemoc , still refused to negotiate and the spanish had to win the city street by street ,
in the last battle , the aztecs were squashed into the warren of streets round the great pyramid in the north , in tlatelolco ,
i 'm looking for the ancient barrios of mexico city , not the modern ones .
i want to go to the area of tepito .
- tepito ?
- yeah . do you know it ?
yes , but it 's a little dangerous .
you don 't care ?
- well ...
you know it ?
- yeah .
- yacacoco ?
- no .
- lacolchoko ?
amashak ?
- no , i don 't know anything about it .
- do you have a map ?
- yes .
show me .
maybe i can help ...
jesus christ .
what kind of map is that ?
- it 's from 1772 !
- you have a rum deal , man !
mexico city 's got a bit bigger since then !
0k .
it seems crazy , but this map , drawn in 1772 ,
mexico city is still inside what was the old island .
you can still see the network of canals and the main roads of the aztec city are still there .
to the end , the mexicans viewed the spaniards as contemptible people who killed brave warriors at a distance with guns ,
in the aztec calendar , the final day was 3-serpent , the beginning of the time of lamentation and remembrance ,
the day human beings were reminded of their place in the remorseless cycle of time ,
this is where the war ended , the exact spot .
this little church was built on the place where cuauhtemoc surrendered .
i find the aztec version of this story as powerful and moving as homer 's " iliad , " the tale of troy .
the aztecs accept their fate without a trace of self-pity .
it 's as if , in their vision of time and destiny , the cycle of history , the bundle of years , had just been loaded against them .
the aztec lamentations have been handed down to us ,
" broken spears line the streets ,
" we have torn our hair in grief
" 0ur houses are roofless now , " our walls red with blood
" 0ur inheritance , our city , is lost ,
" the shields of our warriors were its defence " but they could not save it ,
" 0ur heritage is gone , "
a year or two after the conquest , while a new mexico was rising on the ruins of the old ,
cortes founded a hospital for the good of his soul on the spot where montezuma had welcomed him ,
by then , the king of spain had showered him with honours ,
the poor boy from medellin had become the most famous man in christendom ,
his talents served him well .
the gambler who gambled everything and won .
but maybe in the end it was a hollow victory .
for in achieving his dream , he had to ruin it .
it 's given to few people in history single-handedly to destroy a civilisation .
( sl0w drumbeat )
trujillo , spain .
in the early 16th century two boys grew up here , dreaming of gold and conquest ,
but when they left spain for the new world , they became deadly enemies in one of the epic dramas of history the search for el dorado ,
( train 's klax0n bl0ws )
this is the old route from the pacific up to quito in ecuador , in the 1530s and ' 40s , it was travelled by adventurers and conquistadors , all hoping for riches beyond their dreams ,
even at the time , there were those among the spanish conquerors who realised the immense historical significance of the fall of the new world .
" these are the greatest events , " wrote one of them , " since the beginning of the world . "
and the most cataclysmic of them took place in just a few years , 1520s , the fall of the aztecs , and then the fall of peru in the 1530s .
and then the story shifts here to ecuador , as thousands of europeans flood into the continent , seeking new lands of gold .
among them was a spanish captain called francisco 0rellana ,
a veteran of the inca wars , 0rellana was to be the hero of one of the most amazing journeys of exploration ,
early in 1541 , he came here to quito ,
the old northern capital of the incas , quito was now a spanish frontier town , 0rellana had come to find his cousin , the new governor gonzalo pizarro ,
handsome and cruel , gonzalo was in his early 30s now , the greatest warrior in the new world
but gonzalo was a man whose greed had not been satisfied even by the gold of the incas ,
0nly four years after the fall of p eru , pizarro was dreaming of hew conquests ,
from the rooftops of his palace in quito , he could see the andes rising to the east ,
early in 1541 , a rumour began to sweep the city that beyond the mountains there lay a land richer than mexico or even peru ,
a land of gold
the ruler of this land was said to be so rich that he covered himself in gold dust every , day and washed it off each evening ,
he was the golden man of el dorado ,
" i was fascinated , " said p izarro ,
" and i determined to discover that land and to conquer it , "
and we set out to follow him ,
we took an expedition doctor with us , john colley ,
above 10,000 feet , you get altitude sickness potentially , so where are we at now ?
yeah , we 're coming up to 12,000 feet here .
all through these campaigns , they had to operate at high altitude .
they developed this kind of cotton , thick , quilted cotton armour to fight in the tropics .
but , of course , you 're dead on the equator here , but you come to this altitude and you 're in serious trouble .
beyond the peaks , they entered a drenched green world , with streams and waterfalls , which eventually become the amazon ,
they might as well have been wanderers on the surface of an alien planet ,
pizarro 's route has never been traced on the ground
we know that for the first few months , he explored in a vast circle eastwards , but when his cousin 0rellana joined him , they set off from their camp near baeza northwards to the river coca ,
( man whistles )
( man calls 0ut ) - 0k ?
- yeah .
0h , jesus christ .
( gr0ans )
how many people did pizarro bring down here ?
it 's quite slippery here .
be careful .
( whistling )
are the horses with us ?
- ( man calls 0ut )
- yeah , good .
- how many people did he have with him ?
- 220 conquistadors .
4,000 native bearers .
200 horses , hundreds of hunting dogs .
hundreds of llamas to carry gear .
incredible .
to pizarro 's alarm , his vast army of native bearers was rapidly wasting away ,
the spanish had 4,000 native bearers with them from the highlands , but they all died by the time they reached the plains .
the history books say they were highland people who came down here and couldn 't cope , but why should 4,000 have died , do you think ?
was it malaria ?
not malaria .
that was something the spanish brought over with them .
0f course , there were all these other infectious diseases like measles and smallpox and so forth .
but these big waves of epidemics would have been through already , before this expedition set off , so i wonder if there was something else .
we should ask delphine .
he 's the expert .
starvation , i think .
delphine .
( speaks spanish ) 0ur guide delphine was a man who knows how to survive in the forest ,
( b0th speak spanish )
( translat0r ) i don 't think it 's possible to find that much food for that many people , because you can 't always rely on the jungle to provide you with food or fruit .
i think it would be impossible to feed them .
starvation .
you can imagine trying to find food in this area for that huge number of people .
so the 4,000 indians basically were starved to death .
i presume they 'd be the bottom of the feeding chain as well .
and basically left to fend for themselves as things got really tough .
" the terrain was terrible , " said p izarro ,
" we had to hack our own path through ,
" and we were worn out already from the crossing of the andes , "
frustrated and angry pizarro took it out on his native guides , torturing them , burning them alive and feeding them to his dogs , not a man to argue with ,
food was a growing problem , even for the spaniards ,
" in the end , " says pizarro , " we were forced to eat the buds of a plant like a vine stalk , "
( speaks spanish )
0nly the little curly bud on the top .
( speaks spanish )
that was before they started eating their precious horses ,
at last we reached the first landmark described by the spanish ,
hidden behind the falls , legend says , was the gold of the inca atahualpa ,
( speaks spanish )
( translat0r ) those who are in touch with nature believe that the spirits exists here .
( spanish )
( translat0r ) yes , this is a door to the spiritual world .
the real story of what 's behind the falls , not that it 's gold as the spanish believed , but behind there is the entry to the world of the spirits .
isn 't it wonderful ?
everything the spanish understand literally that the indians actually mean metaphorically .
" and so we pushed on through thick forest , " pizarro says ,
" hacking with axes and machetes , "
" 0ften it was impossible to get our horses through , "
see what an effort it is just to hack a path through virgin forest .
you 're lucky if you do a mile or two each day .
can you imagine what this was like for hundreds of people and all their baggage and their animals trying to get their way through this ?
it just doesn 't bear thinking about .
at last , after six months in the jungle , they emerged from the andes foothills and saw this view , an immense flat horizon ,
even with their limited knowledge , they must have known this stretched all the way to the atlantic , but how far was that and what lay in between ?
( michael ) the big stones .
there 's a branch under there .
they marched on down the coca ,
" there were many days , " says pizarro ,
" when we were wading knee-deep , waist-deep or even worse , "
it 's deep .
and still no sign of el dorado ,
by now , seven months in , the army was demoralised many were too sick to move ,
though he hid it from his men , pizarro was desperate ,
0rellana now tried to persuade him to turn back , but pizarro wouldn ' t give up his quest ,
he ordered his men to build a boat to carry , the sick and wounded and the heavy gear ,
it took his starving troops a month to make , smelting their horseshoes to forge the nails ,
but there was an easier way , using renewable balsa wood , we made a traditional raft with hardwood nails and ropes oo bark ,
with this , we hoped to follow pizarro down the coca to the river napo ,
it just goes to show .
the spanish went to all that trouble about getting nails and you only need some hard wood and some soft wood and you can do it without metal .
we 'll see if it works .
( sh0uting )
it 's our brigantine .
i don 't think we 'll do the full 3,000 miles on that , though .
i don 't mind .
pizarro 's army set off again on the 9th of november , 1541 , 0f the beauties of the landscape around them , there 's no mention in his account ,
this is what you never read in the history books .
you never feel the sense of this immense forest , stretching for 2,000 or more miles .
this immense blue sky and this great river .
even with the boat , progress was painfully slow ,
they could still only go as fast as the army , trudging along the bank ,
( thunder )
they marched on for 43 days , christmas came ,
by now some of the spaniards were dying of starvation ,
their christmas was made even more miserable by the news that a vast uninhabited region lay ahead , where no food was to be found
it was pizarro 's nightmare ,
mutiny was in the air , and then 0rellana stepped forward
that christmas , in their camp here by the river , the whole expedition deeply depressed by the struggle of the last ten months ,
0rellana came up to pizarro and said , " look , give me the brigantine , give me the boat ,
" and a few canoes , some of the men and i 'll go downstream
" to try and find some food and i 'll come back in three or four days . "
pizarro looked at him and said , " whatever you think 's best . "
0rellana left next day with 57 men ,
but within days , so he said later , he realised the current was too strong and he couldn ' t go back ,
" so we chose what seemed to us the lesser of two evils , " 0rellana said ,
" trusting to god we 'd go on and follow the river
" and either die or see what marvels lay ahead "
what he didn ' t know was that ahead of him was the greatest river on earth ,
the first few days they passed through an empty landscape , chewing their boots to stay alive , so close to death , they were hallucinating ,
then , on monday evening , the 8th of january they heard drums , 0rellana landed and nervously went into the forest ,
they were the first europeans to walk in the interior of a mazonia , - do you think they might be asleep ?
- i don 't think there 's anybody home right now .
they 've got their boots right here .
but they 're obviously ...
it 's closed up .
( speaks spanish )
there 's nobody here .
well , they did run away when 0rellana first landed .
left their cooking pots and their food .
0rellana 's men were starving , so , of course , they stuffed themselves .
the indians were very nice about it when they came back .
the man 's name was tapui , nelson tapui ,
he farmed here with his family , pretty much cut off from the outside world
( speak spanish )
he spoke quechua , the inca language ,
( speaks quechuan )
0h , he 'll have to talk slower than that .
and language would be the key to 0rellana 's survival ,
( speaks quechuan )
he began to put words down in a notebook ,
what 's the name in quechuan ?
- lomo .
- lomo .
so yoca is lomo .
that 's very ...
" the captain made a point to get to understand the native languages , " says the diary ,
and he made his own primer to help him , so if you ask for good water to drink , to drink .
( speaks quechuan )
nelson sent his son up a tree to bring seed pods for us to eat ,
the native people here were called imara , they gave 0rellana food , too ,
they let the spaniards stay with them for a month to recover their health ,
saved them from death ,
( they speak quechuan )
can i open ?
0k .
i could get into these .
delicious .
- mmm .
- mmm .
at this moment , 0rellana was still thinking like a conquistador , he told his hosts that he was claiming them and their land for the king of spain ,
bye-bye .
but maybe a change was beginning to take place in his mind , for kind treatment of the indians , he said now , was the right way to follow ,
0ver the coming months , 0rellana would make contact with many different indian peoples ,
some , like nelson , would feed and shelter him ,
some would try , to kill him ,
the mum gives us a smile .
she thought we were aliens at first .
back upriver , pizarro was waiting for 0rellana to return , his men now dying around him ,
and as the days turned to weeks , he began to suspect that his loyal cousin might have betrayed him ,
0rellana 's encounter with the imara had offered hope of survival ,
now he and his men decided to get their story , straight ,
they appointed a scribe to put down on paper why they 'd deserted p izarro ,
and each and every , one of them put his name to it ,
" we 've travelled 200 leagues through savage jungle , " they said .
" we 've all seen it with our own eyes .
" we 've felt constant fear of losing our lives because of suffering and hunger .
" how much more danger and death would there be were we to turn back now ?
" therefore we all beg you , " they say to 0rellana , " not to ask us to do this .
" and we ask our scribe to write it down .
" and we are all willing to follow you by any other route to save our lives .
" but not to turn back . "
but was 0rellana being quite truthful ?
0r did he hope to claim the secret of el dorado for himself
we continued on his track , down the coca to its junction with the napo ,
not so long ago , this was just a mission station , now the town of francisco 0rellana is a wild west place which has boomed with the opening up of the forest to the new conquistadors , the loggers and the oil men ,
just looking round ourselves and seeing the open sewers and dogs running wild and the terrible overcrowding and you suddenly understand why it was that diseases evolved in cities , where there are huge concentrations of people , rather than in the far healthier lifestyle of the jungle .
and this is , i suppose , the second conquisto , isn 't it , you know .
first they came looking for gold and el dorado and now the forests are being plundered .
they 've had their rubber and now it 's the hardwoods and it 's black gold - oil .
- adios , amigo . - yeah , bye-bye .
when you get to manaus , remember , if you go swimming , don 't have a pee .
and so we said our goodbyes to dr colley , 0h , dear .
0ur next leg would take us down the napo , the conquistadors ' river of cinnamon ,
here 's to the river napo .
0rellana sailed on past other great rivers , the aguarico , the curaray , down into what is now peru ,
" we made good speed , " says the diary ,
" sometimes more than 20 leagues a day , for the river 's flow was swift and strong , "
0rellana was now on one of the main tributaries of the amazon , heading east through a vast fluid wilderness ,
from the air , it 's a bewildering maze ,
0ut here nature seems to have no bounds ,
0rellana and his men must have gazed on the scene , part in wonder , part in terror ,
a few days later , they came to a gigantic confluence , the napo and the maranon , the beginning of the amazon proper ,
and as 0rellana reached the maranon , far to the west , pizarro had finally given up hope of seeing him again and ordered his men to turn back ,
there 's a shift now in the tone of the expedition diary , kept by the priest , father carvajal ,
it may be hindsight , but he seems aware now that the journey was turning into an epic of exploration ,
" it seemed to us , by our continuing survival ,
" that our lord jesus was pleased with such a great venture into the unknown ,
" for such a feat of discovery , surely might not otherwise have taken place
" for many centuries into the future , "
ah .
muchas gracias .
- ( w0men sing ) - 0k .
- bienvenido a 0rellana .
- muchas gracias .
buenas noches .
it was here that 0rellana first heard strange stories of a fierce tribe of female warriors , like the amazons of greek myth ,
( rhythmic f0lk s0ng )
his contemporaries never believed him , but he always swore the tale was true ,
it 's a myth which crops up in many places and maybe it 's not just a myth ,
the spanish say that when they came down the amazon , there were all these tribes that were ruled by women and only when they wanted children did they go and raid and get the men and have sex with them and get pregnant
and then they 'd boot the men out .
are there still ...
can you still find women like this on the amazon ?
( w0man translates )
( translat0r ) ah , dominant .
yes , there are woman who are dominant .
0f course .
yes , there are women who have power over the men .
( w0man sings native folkballad )
no one knows for sure whether the amazons really existed
but they gave the river the name it still has today , rio amazonas , the river of the amazons ,
( w0man sings folkballad )
all the way through what is now peru , the local people treated these strangers from another world kindly ,
but did 0rellana ever see them as fully human like himself
i think he remained a conquistador ,
nonetheless , he was still carefully recording words from the river languages ,
( w0man speaks l0cal dialect )
" next to god , " says the diary " the captain 's understanding of the native languages
" was the deciding factor in saving us all from death , "
( they speak l0cal dialect )
0rellana 's diary , is the first description of the peoples of a mazonia ,
" this part of the river , " he says , " they were part of a great federation , the aparians , "
in the two centuries after the coming of the spanish , 90 % of the population here died from violence and disease ,
today the survivors are people living after a holocaust ,
it was a tragedy which went almost unrecorded
here in iquitos , father joaquin is trying to set the record straight , to recover the lost history , of a mazonia ,
( they speak spanish )
in the 16th century these were big towns , large and well-organised communities ,
so maybe what you see now is a distant reminder of what 0rellana saw ,
( speaks spanish )
( translat0r ) i had studied the case of 0rellana for a long time and i concluded that 0rellana met a huge diversity of peoples here .
we wondered what happened to all these people .
we reckon there were over six million in the whole of amazonia .
( michael ) the spaniards were amazed by the natural produce of the forest and the river , the huge quantities of fish of every , kind , parrots , turtles as large as leather shields ,
( spanish )
in his library father joaquin has a copy of the original diary ,
( speaks spanish )
this is the hand ...
this is the handwriting of carvajal .
( translat0r ) " this account was written by friar gaspar de carvajal , " a friar of the order of dominicans ,
" of the voyage of discovery down the great and famous river . "
the famous great river .
( reads in spanish )
" and i was an eyewitness to these amazing things , " says carvajal ,
" a man whom god chose to play a part in such a strange
" and hitherto never experienced voyage of discovery , "
this is the next stage of our amazonian journey , the natalia carolina .
it says , " heading for cubagua today , six o 'clock .
" por mi madre sin falta . " " 0n my mother without fail . "
well , it 's about half past six .
well ...
this is amazon time .
0rellana stayed with the aparians for two months to build a second , bigger boat , a 30-footer ,
a boat strong enough for the sea ,
when he left in late april , he still had 2,000 miles of river to go ,
( w0man sings )
the dream of el dorado is distant now , and for me the voyage had begun to gather like static the history , of the intervening 500 years , the later conquistadors , like the demented aguirre , the so-called wrath of god
the missionaries , the prospectors and the debt raiders , they all came this way ,
and the clamour of history , rose like the sound of the forest in the night ,
and in the ghostly shapes we passed , it was easy to imagine the spaniards on their fragile craft ,
" what hardships , what suffering and what extraordinary , dangers we passed through , "
wrote friar carvajal , he lost an eye in one attack ,
" the people are more hostile now , "
and as for 0rellana , too kind-hearted a soul by far , some said he had learned to read the signs and to negotiate fear , most of all , perhaps , in himself
they now began to see canoes everywhere , they were approaching even richer lands ,
by the middle point of the river , they came past huge settlements , extending for many miles , without any gaps between the clusters of houses .
these were large , well-organised communities , with thousands of people , real high cultures .
they were now inside the territory , of a huge native federation , which stretched for hundreds of miles along the river , the 0magua , they passed so many towns that they could only remember them by giving jokey tags to people and places ,
main street , chinatown , viciousville and stupidville ,
so 0rellana 's diary , offers a new history , for amazonia , an elaborate series of ancient kingdoms , networks and alliances , which had developed over thousands of years , united by the river itself
after three days ' sailing , we reached the brazilian frontier ,
0rellana had to pass a border here , too - the frontier of the machiparo state ,
he had to fight his way through ,
it 's so relaxed today i couldn ' t find anyone to stamp my passport ,
immigration ?
immigration ?
( speaks spanish )
thanks .
gracias .
but the spectre of gonzalo pizarro still haunted 0rellana and his men ,
0rellana never forgot the potential cost of crossing gonzalo pizarro , a member of the most powerful family in the americas .
desertion , after all , was punishable by death .
and their boyhood friendship would count for very little .
so he and his men , all through the journey , covered themselves .
this is the second main document they drew up , formally petitioning 0rellana to be their leader , and every single member of the expedition has signed it , with loud protestations of loyalty to the governor , gonzalo pizarro .
but , at this moment , they had no idea whether pizarro was alive or dead .
pizarro , though , was a man who could face death without flinching ,
the tale of his hellish return has inspired movies , plays and books ever since ,
" for suffering , famine and misery " wrote one conquistador ,
" this was the worst journey ever in the indies , "
attacked all the way , pizarro didn ' t know where he was or what direction to take to reach peru , or any place christians might be ,
" we ate all our dogs and horses , " he wrote ,
" and we got back with only our swords and the rotten rags we stood up in , "
plzarro 's only thought now was revenge against his boyhood chum , the worst liar that ever there was ,
and 0rellana sailed on , as amazing spectacles of nature came one after the other ,
in early june , 0rellana arrived at the site of manaus , where the river stretches to the horizon , as wide as an inland sea ,
manaus was built in the centre of the rainforest , founded as a jesuit mission in the 18th century when the opening up of a mazonia really started
where the opera house and the grand mansions now stand , 0rellana saw huge settlements of hative people lining the waterfront ,
there are few places where you feel more strongly the all-consuming march of history ,
looking centuries into the future , 0rellana 's diary , says this -
" it was our desire that , if possible , the land and its barbaric people
" should not have negative feelings about our first encounter ,
" so that one day the country , might be tamed for pacification
" and reduced to obedience to our christian civilisation , "
the western conception of a city was a new innovation in the americas which came with the conquest .
they require a new way of life , new laws and customs and institutions to make a new identity , to reshape humanity , if you like .
they also suck in the products of the natural world , of the forest and the river , and consume them .
and in that , cities like this , manaus , represent a break in that continuum of thousands of years of life here in the americas .
there may have been five million indigenous people here , when 0rellana came through .
the present population of the natives of amazonia is 250,000 , less than a quarter of this city .
that 's the scale of the revolution .
at last , after eight months on the river and against all the odds , in august , 1542 , 0rellana reached the mouth of the amazon ,
they had sailed 2,500 miles down the greatest river on earth , they had seen unknown empires and encountered lost worlds ,
" it had been less of a journey , " said one of them , " more of a miracle , "
but even as their makeshift boats carried the 47 survivors to safety in the caribbean , back in quito , gonzalo pizarro was petitioning the king for revenge ,
( speaks spanish )
pizarro accused 0rellana of treason , a crime punishable by death ,
" captain 0rellana paid no heed to the duty that he owed your majesty ,
" and to the wellbeing of the army and the whole expedition .
" instead of bringing us back food , he displayed to us all the greatest cruelty
" that ever faithless men have shown .
" and he 's the worst traitor that ever lived . "
in his defence , 0rellana used the documents that they 'd drawn up on the river .
" pizarro wasn 't telling the truth .
what happened was his responsibility .
" the fact was we couldn 't get back to him .
" and , in the end , it was god 's will that we went on to make such amazing discoveries . "
pizarro never came home ,
he died fighting the crown for his family 's empire in peru ,
his house is still there , the garden where he and gonzalo crossed toy swords as boys ,
he married a wealthy young wife , anna , but he couldn ' t settle back in spain ,
he petitioned the king to send him back to his river , with the title of governor of the amazon ,
but his luck ran out , the expedition was a disaster ,
this is how anna remembered 0rellana 's death .
" my husband couldn 't find the main channel of the river
" and , for 11 months , we wandered around like lost people .
" and in that time , we suffered such hardships ,
" because of hunger , disease and incessant rainfall .
" we ate all the horses and the dogs
" and , in the end , almost all the expedition died .
" my husband among them . "
hello , i would like you to touch wood
do you know this expression ?
the easiest way to understand it is referring to the heatwave of 2003 we have well known , may be more in the countryside with agricultural production .
in 2003 this is my place that 's what grew and i did not harvested .
when we see this as a farmer one has the right to wonder about the future .
that 's why i brought you wood that i will distribute .
touching wood , i think it 's good
it makes you feel calm .
it 's nice and it smells good .
here 's a piece for each of you , if you want to distribute .
it 's cherry and plum .
there are probably few in paris .
pass it to the others and we will do a simple experiment
to show that these branches are the future of agriculture .
it seems crazy !
we hear of agriculture at the edge of the drama
and it is true that agriculture is on the brink and we are on the brink .
i 'll show you the same experience as i had .
you take the branch and you do like that .
it can be shaped like a circle very easily .
and what i experienced in 2003 , in 2004 i did not experienced .
because the flexibility of these small branches that are produced every year growing every day the forest makes them .
the best model for agriculture is the forest because the forest does not need humans .
agriculture has derived to the assistantship , to technology .
farmers who don 't understand ground anymore .
farmers have forgotten that the best model and pragmatism of life encourage us to watch the living .
from the living , the forest is the best example .
no human intervention no watering , no fertilizers , pesticides , fungicides it works alone .
when i discovered the flexibility of the small branch i wondered :
why the branches of large diameter break easily ?
whereas we can shape small branches as a circle that represent the virtuous circle of trees which produces branches in huge quantities .
i found on the internet an explanation of the forest and its soil .
we learn that leaves are attached to small branches it is not because they are fed up that they fall .
they restore 50 to 60 % of their content to the branches .
in this branch you are holding ,
there all the nutrients which allow buds in a few months to make new branches which contain branches for the following year .
trees restart their growth only with the content of the small branches .
on large diameter branches there are no such nutrients .
as you read this , you think you can already act individually and talk about it to friends and we will cut branches .
the more we are numerous and the more is the occasion to meet , to live well then we cut the branches , we gather them we make pile and grind it in a machine .
this is a technical operation , but not insurmountable .
in africa , we do it with a machete .
we spread it on the ground a layer of 3 to 5 cm , no more .
we realize that this is not prohibitive for a garden with this material which is hidden here .
i will open it later .
when it is placed on the ground in winter , spring we incorporate it .
you mean there is something about seasons ?
yes , indeed .
at the arrival of winter , the branches store nutrients .
it 's going nowhere but in the branches , only at that time .
in the spring , those elements are diffused again .
so we proceed to what is called incorporation .
after a few weeks the agricultural soil that was here mainly stones has become this .
60 to 90 days after application of a 3 cm thick layer .
here is the top and there underneath .
we see mycelium , the real mushroom .
the mycelium is our collaborator to do what nature does only with mushrooms food chain with the lignin molecule .
the lignin molecule is very energetic and here comes a complex food chain of the soil .
the cultivated agricultural land becomes a forest soil .
it is a copy / paste of forest soil / agricultural land .
it works surprisingly for this stony soil with the rcw to grow wheat
with yields almost higher than normal .
the surprise is enormous , because the trees grow too as well as vegetables .
there you are on limestone plateaus of quercy i invite you to my place .
i brought you bracnches from my place , but here it is .
zucchini grow in full sun .
no watering , just seedlings .
i plant the seeds in the ground and wait for it to grow .
this year , with 12 zucchinis , i picked up 190 kilos .
no watering , no phytosanitary treatment , no weed control .
it might looks like the garden of eden we put the seeds in the ground and harvest .
these are my productions .
unfeasible on the plateau .
when you say you are going to grow carrots on limestone plateaus everyone says it , agronomists , experts there are 30 to 40 % of stones ,
30 cm of soil , impossible .
no water , no fertilizer , no treatment .
yields are 160 to 170 % .
the amount of dry matter is 30 % extra .
which means that the plants have less water and are tastier they overcook less easily and preservation is much longer .
no evidence of disease , plague , aphids or pests
it seems magical .
no human intervention .
it is like facing the forest without human intervention .
is it still agriculture ?
is this a new concept ?
even in mali , burkina faso , togo , gestures are the same , the results are the same .
when small branches are grinded , we put a thin layer on the floor we see the same phenomenon .
mushrooms of a certain family will take nutrients triggers a food chain which induces life returning in soil .
i have not mentioned the name , but it is rcw
w for wood
r for ramial , branches you have in your hand a very special part of the tree bearing leaves , where photosynthesis happens .
energy from the sun , transformed by the leaves is stored in the branches
this concept bothers agronomy , the farming profession must be reinvented .
you imagine a farm with 20 to 30 % of forest area or wood .
it can occur without soil conditioner with 50 % less water at least and a yield of 160 to 170 % .
you do it every 4-5 years .
it is about sustainability
this concept affects many people but research has difficulties to take it in account .
this package , for those who want , we can share it because it works in the garden , in a flower pot , with a lemon tree or a plant that you like .
you put a layer of 3 to 5 cm thick and it works !
you will have the most beautiful fruits less watering needs and besides it 's beautiful , it smells good .
for those that want to smell and take some there is a characteristic smell of forest .
i invite you to share this meal with the ground .
note :
c of rcw stands for chipped
subtitle and translation :
this is a rocket stove .
rocket stoves generally create much more efficient combustion and are better able to store heat than conventionnal stoves .
and so , i decided i wanted to build this stove rather than use the previous one that i had because i wanted to be putting less pollution into the atmosphere but also this stove , you actually feed wood into the top
which means that you can put long pieces of wood , directly into the stove and it doesn 't have to be cut to be able to burn .
so , i can put the wood in here and the burning actually happens down in the bottom of this area and then , the flue gas will travel through the stove there is a riser up inside the barrel itself
that creates a draft so that you can actually have the wood feeding in through the top and then the flue gas will travel up , hit the top of the barel on the inside and then there is an opening on the outside .
on the inside of the barrel but on the outside of the part that comes up in the middle .
all the flue gas will travel down around the outside of the barrel and out through the back and up , out of the chimney .
all this cob here that surrounds the stove is designed to capture the heat from the combustion so that it 's not just all going straight up the chimney .
with a conventionnal stove the heat tends to travel out of the building very quickly .
this allows for more of the heat to be stored in the building and then slowly the heat is released over time out of the cob .
so , this is the sky house rocket stove
it is a sort of a wall in between our dinning room and our living room .
basically , you got the intake here the barrel is here and you can see there is a very large amount of cob surrounding most of the barrel here .
this entire wall is actually a cob wall .
basically we got a lot more mass to store heat in we 've got a little bit of area where the barrel is exposed so that is gonna through heat in the room quickly when you first light the stove but for the most part we are looking at the stove
to store heat for a long time and we burn the fire here in the morning , we can run it for a few hours and all of this cob will still be warm into the evening .
so , here we are on the other side of the wall , in the dining room .
here is the other side of the barrel encased in cob and then the flue of the rocket stove runs all the way through this bench and up that chimney .
one of the benefit of the rocket stove is that you can have a long horizontal run of your flue pipe and you can monitor a bench or under a bed or wherever you want to store that heat .
normally we have a table here so this one of the seat of the table , that is very popular when we are in winter cause this area gonna stay warm pretty much all day until the evening if we fire the rocket stove that day .
there is about 4 to 6 inches of cob on top of the flue here on the bench so they can take a few hours before it heats up .
i would say 2 or 3 hours but then it wil stay warm throughout the day .
the front of the rocket stove there is only about 2 inches between the flue and the front and that heats up a little faster sometimes it is almost a little too hot so that 4 inches is really great if it 's going
to be an area , where you are physically in contact with .
like this bench .
we oil the bench to waterproof it cause it is near the table .
the chimney runs up as cob all the way up into the second story and that , again stores thermal mass up into the bedrooms , upstairs as well .
subtitles :
welcome to basalt mountain located on the northern rim of the roaring fork valley in colorado .
the climate here is hot and dry in the summer and frigid in the winter .
to the point were only a small number of plant and animal species can survive here .
until now no one would have considered farming in this dry rocky nutrient poor soil .
but thanks to our current understanding of nature 's natural processes one man has built up a nutrient rich soil upon this dry undesirable clay forming the foundation for a thriving ecosystem
jerome osentowski is the man behind the ecosystem and the central rocky mountain permaculture institute .
nestled on the side of basalt mountain lye one acre of edible forest garden guilds and four passive and active solar greenhouses which have become a large part of jerome 's most recent permaculture endeavors
i came to colorado in 1969 and i spent about the first seven or eight , ten years as a ski instructor .
and gradually got interested in healthy foods
through having somewhat of a health crisis with hyperglycemia so i decided to look into wild foods and that lead me into growing my own gardens and using wild foods when it was available
jerome began gardening in the lowlands of the basalt area with the understand that it would be too difficult to grow near his home on basalt mountain due to the arid soils and difficulty in harnessing water but once i learned about permaculture
i found that it was totally possible to create these beautiful gardens using recycled materials , and building compost , sheet mulching , using perennial and annual vegetables
in combinations of designs
so , we started annual gardening here for ten years or so and then we gradually segued into perennial polycultures outside and now inside and we 've taught hundreds of people here through internship programs and through the different design courses and workshops here .
what 's nice about it is that they can come and eat the fruits see the combination of plants in our forest gardens and see how we build our greenhouse
but jerome 's success in permaculture hasn 't come without some major road blocks
in 2008 a devastating fire burned down one of his first tropical greenhouse 's ironically named pele [ after the hawaiian fire goddess ] to the ground .
the fire in pele was actually a blessing in disguise .
because we were able to take new technology and design a much bigger , better greenhouse .
so i worked with michael thomson my partner in ecosystems design to redesign the new greenhouse .
at the time that pele burned down jerome had been working with well know local architect michael thompson on advancing greenhouse design by introducing what jerome called " climate battery technology "
the destruction of pele gave the two the chance to put their latest research to the test and in the spirit on new beginnings the new greenhouse would be named phoenix after the mythological bird that burns itself and rises from the ashes to live through another cycle .
hi i 'm michael thompson ,
i 'm chief architect with ecosystems design in basalt colorado and partner with jerome osentowski .
the climate battery as we now call it , is a series of tubing in which air is taken in at the high point of the greenhouse , pumped through tubing , and exhausted at the south end of the greenhouse .
and then that air circulates over and over again picking up heat and then delivering it underground and storing it .
so at ecosystems design , we create designs for greenhouses and passive solar buildings and homes as well as outdoor landscaping perennials and annuals for organic agriculture in the rocky mountain region .
in addition to designing indoor and outdoor permaculture and edible landscapes
we create the buildings that allow that indoor growing , such as this one in steamboat springs .
this is a large thirty six by eighty foot greenhouse that will support sub-tropical and anything below that .
and here we have inside the greenhouse , all of these planting beds that we have created above ground and under ground we have these forced air heat storage systems
so all of these fans are delivering air through these vertical risers which then underground distribute the warm air through these horizontal manifolds through these perforated tubes that deliver the heat and the moisture from that air into the soil for use later in the cold nights .
so as a result we get these indoor environments that are very well insulated and heated against winter conditions such as this last year .
and when we have a condition like this where we have very cold weather and snow around the building inside what were experiencing is uhh ...
this is when we began the planting of this greenhouse last autumn , and this spring we had this much growth in there .
so we have flowers , we have other plants that support the insect populations for beneficial controls and for pollination , and we have all of the soil conditions and the climate conditions to grow tropical banana plants , and guavas and figs and papaya etcetera .
and these greenhouses also function very well as early propagation centers
where we can start the plants in february that will grow outdoors as annuals .
we also have climate control equipment like these curtains that draw across underneath the glazing at night when its very cold so we have an extra insulating layer for accomplishing that .
so we also do solar homes solar energy productive buildings .
in addition to designing greenhouses for private investors crmpi and growing spaces are building growing domes for local schools in colorado in order to raise awareness about the importance of a local food economy .
the institute has currently built a growing dome at yampa mountain high school in glenwood springs and the roaring fork high school in carbondale both facilities will be utilized as classrooms for sustainable agriculture curriculums and the food produced will be integrated into the school lunches. there you can find out more about our services and browse our design galleries .
for more information about the central rocky mountain permaculture institute and how you can contribute please visit crmpi.org there you 'll find detailed information about our growing dome projects via the community food initiative as well as workshop dates and internship availability .
and built the geodesic growing domes used at the local high schools and special thanks to john cruickshank for his role in the technological advancements of what is now called the climate battery
thanks for watching
water
water is
water is life .
bassin de retention d 'eau a tamera ( portugal )
avec sepp holzer et benrd muller
water is life .
water is the most important thing .
the whole world is 70 % water .
we , animals , everything-70 % water .
water is the key issue for the survival human kind on this planet .
nature has provided enough water everywhere on earth ;
but , a billion people do not have sufficient access to clean drinking water .
more and more regions lack the water to grow the food they need .
centralized systems of artificial water management cannot solve this problem .
we need de-centralized systems of natural water management .
we are in tamera peace research center in southern portugal , where a water retention landscape has been in development since summer 2007 .
bernd muller is responsible for tamera 's ecological research work .
in 2007 the community of tamera still had the question whether a site of this size threatened by desertification could provide food , water and energy for 300 people .
we visited sepp holzer and asked him this question and he brought us this gift the vision of a water landscape .
sepp holzer , an austrian mountain farmer , is a well-known specialist and visionary for permaculture and landscape healing .
water is always at the core of his work .
for me water is the most important capital .
wherever it 's possible , you should create retention spaces and collect the rain water and re-learn with the water how to maintain a balance .
this is the most important thing because once you 've created the right hydrological balance ,
70 % of the work is done .
ou help rich vegetation to develop , diversity ecause nature can reveal itself and develop in the right way .
traveling through the world i have not seen a single situation , nation or land in which the development of a water retention landscape would not give the first important healing impulses .
in many parts of the world , countries are not able to feed their population anymore . they have been unable to maintain their natural wildlife for a long time .
as a consultant in many countries
sepp holzer sees the consequence of deforestation , monoculture , overgrazing and industrial agriculture .
all these factors destroy the natural water balance .
the soil is drying out . water is being lost and the retention space , the natural water storage system of the earth , is becoming dry and the flora and fauna disappear .
in the end the land will turn into desert or burn ecause it 's so dry .
you can see these problems happening all over the world , bringing huge catastrophes .
and the heavy rains come anyway .
what happens then ?
the water rushes down the slopes because the dry soil does not absorb the water .
when the soil is hotter than the falling rain it rejects the water .
only when the soil is cooler , when the vegetation is giving shadow then it attracts the water and lets it seep in .
this is the construction site for a new water retention space in tamera .
wherever you work with soil you can read the signs of erosion .
topsoil should actually form a thick , living layer everywhere on the ground which enables rainwater to filter in .
but , this layer has been eroded away .
now the topsoil lies in layers many meters thick in the bottom of valleys or is found as mud in rivers .
the surface of fields and sites higher up is depleted and barren .
de-centralized water retention landscapes give the water time to filter back into the earth body .
people always have the same questions , always the same worries , where will all this water come from ?
in such dusty dry soil without streams or a river .
how can i build a lake here ?
people have simply lost the knowledge of how to use the catchment area and the rain , the blessing of the water in the right way .
when i use the catchment area , thereupon , the lake will fill very quickly .
how much water can change a landscape in a short time .
we can see here , comparing tamera before the creation of lake 1 and today .
water retention landscapes can be built everywhere .
anywhere on earth .
a water retention space must not be sealed with concrete or plastic .
it is enough to build a dam out of natural material at the narrowest point of a valley .
you dig a ditch until you reach an impermeable layer .
on that solid ground you apply layer after layer of fine material , like moist clay and drive on it and roll it to build the water barrier .
this water barrier is the core of the dam .
for the outside of the dam i take course material , it doesn 't have to be dense and water-proof . of course ,
i will also have to compact it by driving on it and rolling it .
and like this , i build the whole dam , the water barrier in the core nd on the outside in a slope of 1 to 2 , 1 meter up and 2 meters along , like this i build the two layers together , up to the top .
the water retention spaces have winding banks , shallow and deep zones , a diverse vegetation of water plants and are built aligned to the prevailing wind direction this way the water is always moving , is enriched with oxygen ,
the water in a water retention landscape stays fresh and alive by itself .
since we created the first retention space , we can already keep much of the water from the winter rainfalls on the land .
in this way in can unfold its full healing capacity , the wildlife is responding and is returning and the vegetation is recovering .
we can plant fruit trees again , the forests recover and we can grow our food for people and for animals in the direct surroundings of the first retention space .
the water which used to run away and which is now stored here is at the same time also having an impact on the whole groundwater system .
in the first year , a spring developed below this lake which now gives water throughout the year .
since we built this first dam , we no longer have such big variations with a lot of flowing water in winter when it 's raining and droughts in the summer .
we have a more constant water situation throughout the year , which is of course a huge benefit for nature .
nature shows you how this works , you just have to ask her , have to contact her , to communicate with her , then you will be fine anywhere on earth .
ask nature , think with her and not against her .
put yourself in her place and you get all the answers you need .
make room in your head so that natural thinking has space to happen .
a forest garden is a three dimensional garden of useful plants .
so there 's trees , shrubs , ground cover plants , perennial plants all designed to maximise beneficial interactions and minimize competition , designed to be sustainable in the long term by having plants that feed other plants by having plants for bees to sustain a pollinating population ,
sustainable from other ways too , because most of the plants are perennial , you know trees or smaller plants and so the soil is not dug most of the time and not digging the soil is really important in term of sustainability
because every time you dig the soil , a lot of carbon goes into the air .
this is chinese dogwood , which is as you can see , a fantastic beautiful plant in flower but actually has a very nice edible fruit which follows later in the year .
apart from food , there are various other things you can grow and i do in this forest garden so i include medicinal plants ,
i include plants for dying , for basketry use , plants for fibers , there are of course a lot of bee plants , sometimes plants are here specifically for bees , so you might look at a particular plant in this forest garden
and i won 't necessarily harvest that plant myself it might have a system function in terms of feeding another plant , or it might be here specifically for bees because if flowers are at a good time of year for bees
and so on . so there is plants for all sources of different uses .
there 's ... i think forest gardens will have a role to play they are ... you know there is an awful lot of interest at the moment in forest gardens .
of course mainstream agriculture of course is completely dependent on oil , and you know what happens to oil will have a big effect and of course the oil price will may certainly go up and up over the decades to come ,
because , you know , demand will exceed supply . in this country particularly , you know , tree ... you know , farmers don 't tend to know much about trees and foresters don 't know much about farming and agroforestry which is kind of in the middle of the two
therefore is quite ... seems quite difficult for people and farmers to access because , you know , they are not comfortable with trees .
so that 's a potential problem that could slow down , you know , the implementation of more agroforestry based systems on farming .
but i think it needs to happen and i think slowly it will happen but ...
i think it will take ... unfortunalety i think it will take a crisis or two , you know a serious crisis or two , to actually jolt the powers of be into actually you know , making it happen quicker .
this is one of my main salad leaves from the forest garden , it 's the young leaf you use , this kind of leaf , not the old one , the old ones would be tough .
an interesting parallel to times which may be coming you know , when in the cold war years the soviet union did a lot of fruit breeding because they wanted to be self sufficient in fruit , you know , they didn 't want to have to import fruit from a long distance ,
well typically from , you know , the west .
and so they did a lot of interesting fruit breeding , this is one of the plants they bred in fact , and you know that has a parallel in that ... of course in the moment , as a country , you know , we import a lot of our food and there is no reason why we couldn 't , more or less ,
grow most of it here .
and of course that 's got to be sensible from our sustainability and our resilience aspects , it 's got to be sensible and our governments haven 't got it yet .
forest gardens are resilient because of the ... because of the diversity , really .
so , it 's diversity of structure so lots of different plants at different levels but also diversity of species , so this forest garden has about 550 species in it , which is probably more than most because i am doing a lot of research and experimenting as well ,
but , it 's very common for forest gardens to have 200 species and , you know , the majority of which would be food plants you know which ... to ask when we 're used to , you know , eating 20 types of vegetables or something ,
you know if you 're talking about 200 types of food plant , people , initially , might be slightly overwhelmed , but actually ...
i regard that as actually proving much more normal than relying on 20 you know i think ... if you look at if you look at our near relatives , things like orangutans they regularly eat 400 different types of leaf and fruit ,
they know everyone , they recognize every one , you know they know exactly what they are picking that 's no reason we couldn 't do the same .
and i suspect ... you know diverse diet will lead to more resilient people as well .
bamboos are fantastically useful plants and of course in china and japan or other parts of asia they use bamboo for more things that you could think of .
this one is growing about 20 cm a day at the moment , because of this warm weather so ... and you can actually hear them growing , bamboos are the only plants i can claim to have heard growing because when it 's growing that fast and you put your ear near the top
you can hear the fibers unfurling and crackling away .
so , if i just cut the top of that , and cut it down in the middle , it 's very interesting inside , you 'll see ... you can see what are going to be the nodes which are these bits on the bamboo cane
and everything inside this white or light green is edible , so you peel of the outer leaves and then the inside bit is edible you normally steam that ... just steam it for 5 or 10 minutes and then ... because they 're normally bitter raw .
this garden is now 16 years old and ... i 've certainly seen i 've seen climate changes in that time mainly , you know , increased average temperatures and fewer spring frosts .
dry springs is something that most farmers hate because they 've just sawed all their spring crops , or horticulturists for that matter , you know , and dry weather is just what they don 't want in spring so that can be quite severe in terms of growing annual plants
so , you know , obviously if you 're growing perennial plants a dry spring is , more or less irrelevant you know , won 't have very much effect at all and similarly , you know , extremes of weather at other times of year are gonna have much less effect
on perennial crops than on annuals as a rule .
fungi are probably the most important organisms of all in this forest garden , and of course most of the time we don 't see it because they are under the soil surface and ... the fungi i am talking about are mycorrhizal fungi
which are beneficial fungi that form relationships with almost all plant roots .
and they do some amazing things :
when they form an association with plant roots they basically give the plant hard to get nutrients because fungi can get those out of the ground much more efficiently than plants and the plant gives the fungi some sugars in return , so it 's kind of symbiosis .
but they do other things as well , they protect the plant from diseases and ... they move nutrients around in natural ecosystems and in something like a forest garden if there is more nutrients of one sort in one part of the soil
and a lack in another part of the soil , this fungi will move it , physically move it from one place to another and then the tree in another place will use it .
so that 's how things like nitrogen from my nitrogen fixing trees gets around to fruit trees that need it the fungi move it for you .
the other thing that this fungi do , which has really just been discovered in the last few years is critical in sequestering carbon in stable states in the soil .
so without them you wouldn 't get sequestration into the soil .
and of course you don 't get these fungi where you dig the soil .
and this huge potential you know for sequestering more carbon into the soil you know ... and certainly you know , everybody seems to want to do that but ... but to do that , you gonna have to move to a much more perennial system .
this is pokeroot which is a quite a well known american wild edible .
weedy shoots that come through which tend to be at the beginning of june so it 's kind of very late spring crop really and the shoots come as really thick like you can see here .
you cook those and they have a sort of healthy asparagus flavor to them really , really substantial vegetable .
but poisonous when it 's raw , you know , so you have to cook it but there 's lots of plants you know that we eat have little poison in one state or another otherwise i think if potatoes were discovered now they probably wouldn 't be allowed in this country
because you know green potatoes are quite poisonous .
i mean my estimate is that you could certainly feed 4-5 people of an acre of forest garden .
i use a lot of aromatic plants down in my perennial layers so a lot of different side sauce of mint for example and lemon balm or oregano , and other herbs some of which of course is harvested but ,
it 's doing some useful functions that 's some useful functions even if you don 't harvest it down this layer because you know they are rich in essential oils , mints and other aromatic plants and essential oils are anti bacterial and anti fungal so having those in the understory layers should have a protective effect you know for other plants in term of reducing bacterial diseases and fungal diseases .
the medlar is a fantastic fruit tree which a lot of people don 't know but you can see the young fruits here these grow to about 3-3.5 centimeters diameter and ripen on the tree in warm summers otherwise you pick them
at the first frost and taken indoors and then they ripe in with are sort of very sweet sort of date , baked apple type flavor to them really nice edible fruit ... and also , you know , again very low maintenance it doesn 't have any pests or diseases it just looks after itself .
monoculture crops have been dominating all agriculture research for hundreds of years and even now you know mainstream agriculture scientists they don 't like looking at more than one crop in one place , it makes things very complicated for them .
this is sichuan pepper which is obviously a commercial crop grown in china mainly but it 's a shrub as you can see a largely shrub and you can see it has just finished flowering it 's just starting to form the peppercorns here
and each of those will form a roundish fruit so the black seed in the middle and a sort of pink shell round the outside .
it 's actually that pink shell which is the spice you don 't have to use black pepper if you have something like this .
welcome to the new afrika shrine .
tonight femi kuti is going to be playing on stage his regular sunday jump .
all afro-beat lovers , music lovers from around the world come here to have a ball .
and a ball they have .
you 're a white man , yeah , and i 'm a black man !
africa , one love !
shoki oh !
femi oh !
femi has a show at 9 : 00 .
but , being a good musician , he 's doing the right thing :
he needs to rehearse , do his voice training , play his sax , tune it before the show .
even if you come on monday , when we 're not working , you 'll still hear him playing his sax , his trumpet , maybe his keyboard ... he does that all the time .
in the bathroom , he plays his trumpet !
hey , your tickets , bros !
your tickets !
femi live and direct !
brothers and sisters , welcome to a sunday jump at new afrika shrine , and the last day of recording of our new album .
anyway , say your feet come here all the way , in these times of trouble in our country , no money , no salary , no hospital , everything ...
so you come all the way from apapa , victoria island ...
fadeyi , isale awori , ajuwon , omole ... and all over lagos !
we 're delighted that you are here with us tonight .
you say : " they talk too much for sunday jump , " we 're here to make you happy , give you the good vibes you deserve .
yesterday dem tell us say
say today na we go gain
so we struggle suffer dey
for this new democratic change
but the truth of the matter be say
them disguise another way
to continue their crooked ways
o yes dem bobo
dem bobo your mama
dem bobo your papa
dem bobo your granmama
dem bobo your granpapa
dem bobo the market women
dem bobo your journalist
the human right activist
in the name of democrazy
we have about 2000 people on tuesdays and thursdays at rehearsals .
and it looks like many of them feel part of this place , feel like this is their home .
they feel like my life revolves around their life , they feel like they 're part of what 's going on here .
i just thought that if they feel part of it , why don 't i make everything open ?
so that i have no secrets when i am writing a song .
everybody 's here while i do it .
i feel comfortable because of the life i 'm living .
so ... i know them , it 's like a participation .
they 're all like " what 's on the next album ? . "
all of you vote for it .
i 'm confused myself .
tell me what you 'd love to say ...
let me tell you ...
can 't buy me and shoki , we want them on the album !
what we can do for you is this : we can vote democratically .
democratic elections !
yes !
put your pen away , and be practical .
and so we say :
i say :
" shotan ? " yeah ...
everybody loves shotan .
no , so we cannot do that for all 18 . you 'll choose .
what you can do is , you can go find your supporter 's club .
write an official letter :
" this is what i want recorded ... "
" we contest your presidency ! "
you know you lost , even if you go to court !
go to court , you will see !
you can even appeal !
yeni , can you explain what 's going on ?
some of us are protesting that our numbers didn 't go in the charts .
- you don 't agree with the choice ?
- no , not at all .
we 're complaining about a special number :
can 't buy me .
who dat man talking to ?
him think say him dey talk to fool
him work his way- to come near me
just to come disturb my peace
him ready to dash me many thing
him wants to buy my loyalty
but he can 't buy me
can 't buy me
na so i dey watch am
as him dey boast to me
na so i dey watch am
as him dey yab to me
can 't buy me !
who dat man talking to ?
him start boast of him property
him get land here , him get land there
him don get land for everywhere
him get 12 car him get 10 house
him wants to buy my loyalty
but he can 't buy me
na so i dey watch am
as him dey boast to me
femi , the voice of africa !
ambassador of africa !
your majesty !
his excellency !
positive force !
son of fela ransome !
african president !
ambassador of africa !
you 're the best !
his excellency !
let him through !
we do not have to remind ourselves of the announcement of shotan , also known by the name she were .
do not throw any type of beverage , including ... chelsea , beer , squadron , stout .
if you think i 'm a squadron leader , all you have to do is go to the barracks .
do not throw your don simon or araga .
whatever may be the drink , do not splash water on your fellow human beings , you wouldn 't do it at home .
can you throw it on your father ?
you can 't .
if tinunbu came here , you would be shaking .
as i was saying , do not !
do not throw water on him !
obviously you are too drunk to listen to my announcement , so , let us continue ...
are you crazy ?
have you lost your heads ?
shotan , shotan , shotan
we don tell you many times before
say na you go come to regret
so the government of obasanjo
go carry all of us go for hell
you carry your ponpose self about
you say you no want to hear
now everything don scatter for your face
senior mugo shotan o
shotan , shotan , shotan
they enjoyed it , especially during sunday jump .
did you see how full it was ?
everybody was happy , enjoying themselves , and jumping and everything , which is good .
and then they relax , you know ?
because in nigeria , life is not easy for anyone .
cost of living , there 's no lights , no water , the schools are poor ...
it 's not easy .
the salaries aren 't paid , pensions aren 't paid , so everything isn 't going smoothly .
we want to have somewhere you can sit , forget everything , go there for some time . i think it 's great .
femi 's doing a lot for them that way .
that 's another way of getting to the people .
if he continues like that , there 's no trouble .
there 's no trouble in the shrine when he 's there .
everything 's cool and organized .
whereas with fela , it was tough .
there were always problems there .
there were always problems .
education doesn 't work , hospitals don 't work properly , people are poor , police aren 't paid ...
i mean , no security , life is totally a mess here .
the papers tell us a different story from the reality of our lives .
a lot of people are in pain here now .
even me , i 'm comfortable , but when you see so much poverty , how can you be happy ?
after 40 years of independence , there is no area in nigeria where you have light constantly , water running constantly .
and we call ourselves independent ?
independence means you 're independent of asking for favors .
we can 't say we are independent , because we are still relying on many things to keep our country going .
i wanna be free from all these yeye politics
i wanna be free from all these yeye politicians
i wanna be free from all these corrupt monsters
because of the ideals of femi anikulapo-kuti , he has always found a positive way to project the black man .
we believe in black power , and that we can be trusted .
we want to convey that africans can mind themselves properly .
we want to do away with the myths in black mentality that the black man can 't do what he wants to achieve .
we 're trying to say things can work in africa , if our leaders do the right thing .
but most of all , if no one can do that , we should free ourselves .
i think that femi has found a better way to project this and continue fela 's hope to project the black image right .
to try to create another way to see that things can work in black africa .
i wanna be free from all these corrupt monsters
wey want to chop man
the king is dead
na dem kookuma kill the king for political reasons
dem no fit talk as e be
oya back to politics
dem start to scheme for the same corruption and thief
no plan for you and me
when we dey sleep
dey dem dey meet to plan their evil strategies
to control our resources
african leaders
and their foreign counterparts
e bi like from these evil monsters
we shall never be free
i wanna be free i said every day
every night
i ask myself
why , why , why
chee because fela die
that is why dem dey try to
confuse i and everybody mind
last sunday , i had my beret .
it was stolen today .
what do they want ?
- they stole my beret .
- sanctioned .
what do you mean , sanctioned ?
i told you they stole it !
did you hear him ?
i lent mine to him , over there .
they only gave me the shirt .
isoko , anyone give you a beret ?
he said he doesn 't have it .
i 'm wearing michael 's beret .
i had a beret , last week .
each time we go out in this uniform we hear people yell :
" femi 's child ! "
or " the shrine boys ! "
they do recognize us as one of the " shrine boys . "
fela , himself has already made the shrine popular for all the africans .
so when his son took over for him , people respect him like they respected his father .
when we put on this uniform we look as if we 're close to femi .
it 's hard for people to see femi , so when we wear this uniform , they say " this is femi 's security . "
that 's why we 're proud to wear this uniform .
i 'm proud to be working at the shrine , i 'll always be proud .
when i 'm going home , a policeman will ask me :
" where are you coming from at this hour of the night ? "
i tell him i 'm working security at the shrine .
he asks if i have my id card ,
i tell him i don 't have one .
this is the symbol of where i work .
as long as they can see this , they know that i work for femi .
so they allow me to go .
if dem want to hear we go tell them plenty things
if dem want to see we go show them many things
wey the african man wey the african woman
find it very difficult to succeed
na today dem no say mubotu no good
she na today dem no say company no good
see this african leaders
dem don kill all their people finish
look again obasanjo don kill nigerians
no not obasanjo and his padi paddies
dem dey try to give us different reason
to tell us say obasanjo no guilty
na today dem no say charles taylor no good
na today dem no say mugabe no good
my son omorimade afolabi anikulapo-kuti
see those african leaders rolari
dem don kill all their people finish
as we ought to know the reason why
the african man and the african woman find it difficult to su ... su ...
because you like to drink beer too much !
you like to suck breasts too much !
you 'd like to be sucking pussy too much !
... succeed !
with the dancing ... with the dancing , the anger , the suffering you still find joy and peace .
we 're letting so much frustration out of our system .
and all that is a language , without talking .
there is communication on that . i go to sleep ,
i can wake up the next day , move forward without stress .
if my body 's aching me or my girlfriend or ...
why do we need to have stress ?
and i hope the people who come here have that same kind of vibe .
i mean , what is life ?
to have peace of mind , know what to do the next day , how to deal with life .
so if the shrine can do that to everybody , or anybody , i won 't call it a church or mosque ,
i 'll just say it 's life , shrine .
i won 't say god is here , god is not . god is here , but he 's everywhere .
i will not go under the umbrella of religion , i 'll make it spiritual . it 's limitless .
i will not say :
" this is where to be , " but " at least you can be . "
keyboard !
yeah , i play the base guitar .
i dance .
he plays guitar .
i dance on stage .
i play the trumpet .
i play the shakers .
i 'm a percussionist .
this is the band leader !
if i can take this country , then africa is settled .
once there 's a good government in 1 country , they 'll be liberated .
only one straight , progressive clean government that knows what it 's doing .
no diplomacy , no compromises ,
and no marxism-leninism , no capitalism .
africanism !
the time don come
for me to talk
before i talk
make i thank everyone
for the support you na give my family
during our troubles
you my friends una dey with me ninety-seven
i shall never forget
ninety-seven the pain ! the sorrow !
i want to thank you my friends
jigbolo , jijigbolo , jigbolo !
oh yes i remember
the day all of us we gathered
to pay our respect to the
one and only fela
we carry am go him house
before him spirit go for eledumare palace i say
together we walka
carry fela oh
for those wey no know na that dey them know
say the people them love fela oh
together we walka
i 've never seen anybody in this whole country or in all of africa ...
only 2 people are walking the streets of power :
nkrumah and my mother !
that 's what i 'm talking about !
all these dirty politicians who sit on their asses !
the young and the old the strong and the weak
the rich and the poor
them gathered to carry fela
together we walka
and then as we want start to relax
we no know our problems
just start from nowhere we hear
cousin fran just pass
just like that she die
we start to wonder why
enough is enough
the people start to talk
the problems don too much
again as we start to relax and then suddenly we hear
na the matter of my sister ' sola come make all of us weak for body
again we ask ourselves why
for she was too young to die
as we dey cry na so we dey try
we dey struggle to save her life
the doctors them dey lie
them want to get money to survive
the thing wey dey pain me pass
na the way she suffer before she died
na so them dey cut cut
dey chook chook making experiment with human life
oh my sister ' sola oh oh oh
ninety-seven
ninety-seven i shall never forget
oh yes i remember
music is the way for us . music is the thing of the future .
music is the weapon of the future .
femi takes care of everybody , street boys , everybody .
we live okay here .
in nigeria , only femi takes care of everybody .
he 's concerned about poverty , concerned about corruption , the poor ...
in nigeria he 's a great man , femi anikulapo-kuti , and he did many songs to let people know
so we have a lot of music to let you know what is going on in nigeria and africa .
femi 's making people know , and wants to know more .
if you want to know more , come to the shrine .
that 's all .
he 's like a prophet who has come to make people realize ...
he 's a prophet who makes people realize that they must fight for their rights , like one of his best tracks , democrazy .
and now we realize that the government makes us mad , when you get mad , that 's shotan .
shotan , it 's like the destructive kid the mother didn 't want to have .
that 's what our government made us be .
but thank god , we have the shrine , we have survival .
and we are ready to serve the true prophet .
- not true ?
- it 's true !
we do something for ourselves !
we want to move further ,
we want to go to university !
but our presidents only watch themselves , rule themselves . and the country 's getting worse and worse .
prices always go up , food , people are dying !
food prices .
no light , no good education , no good nothing !
mr. president , we 're begging you !
we fight for our rights , man !
we 're fighting together , doing something for ourselves !
for ourselves , for our lives !
femi kuti tells us how to think for ourselves .
because some people are millionaires , while the country is going bad , bad !
the frustration is too much .
sometimes when i 'm walking i see the policemen beat people like dogs .
the policemen beat us like dogs .
not true ?
it 's true , man !
the afrika shrine be my neighborhood
every night , i 'm there at afrika shrine
the ladies do as they like at the shrine
everybody does as they like at the shrine
every night they meet at the afrika shrine
neighborhood
all africans are my neighbors
the ladies like my neighborhood
the man we call femi is a prophet .
we all serve him .
he 's given us the message to keep the place clean .
we make sure it 's clean .
we have found a survivor , we are pleased with him .
we are happy .
we are people from places like ajegunle and mushin , places where people go without eating .
we 're here , we found survival with him .
we serve him .
that 's why this place is clean .
if i leave for 5 minutes , this place will be messed up .
i must be here to make sure this place is clean .
so he 'll be pleased with me , and i 'll be happy he 's pleased .
bring me
bring me the man now
i believe right now there 's so much energy here .
and you can manipulate this energy for you .
my role is taking the energy of music and transforming it into dance .
if i achieve that , it 's a force .
music is a powerful force .
i take that sound , truly , not trickery or lies .
i take that energy and go pow ...
and make people really go crazy .
how ?
it 's magic .
people ask me how i did it , i don 't know .
because i do the right thing , that energy is using me as a medium to express many things through music .
now that energy is a constant thing , 24 hours a day .
you can use that energy to understand , for many things .
say you have a headache , somebody will be able to just touch your head , you 'll feel a kind of ease because of the true love .
you take the energy : " you have a headache ? where ? "
and that person will have calm .
i beg live me
no disturb me with nonsense gist
the fine things of life these people don 't see
their bad mind no gree make dem get better dream
with their crooked legs dem walka go redem
but salvation comes from within
seek and ye shall find
definitely with music
whose rich harmonies and melodies
will truly bring peace
all in the name of peace
we fight and kill to find justice
for me na only music
from the voice of the soul we speak
wetin concern me with english
na dem koko greedy dem selfish
my sisters
they bank africa money like the swiss
oyinbo don kill africa finish
femi , don 't go !
the son of fela " baba 70 . "
don 't go !
i think it 's the most challenging place to compose .
if the shrine people love it , then i 'm not worried , really .
i 'm not really worried , because i 'm very critical of myself . if i don 't like it , if i don 't feel something , i will not continue the work .
after the completion of the shrine ,
i found that i was alone , and i just saw myself sinking deep into music .
and on getting where i am in life , i found that the only friend i have , the only thing i can trust , is myself .
and it 's difficult to really trust yourself .
you don 't want to do something , then you do it .
the only thing i have confidence in , in my life , 100 % , is music .
even if you don 't give your life to music , music will take you over .
so , i just let myself go and wherever music takes me , so be it .
i have no worries concerning that .
i 'm not sad .
i mean , i have peace .
sometimes i look annoyed , it 's things around me , or things people said . i am a very happy man , very happy .
sometimes i love being alone , i love being in my own world because this world is crazy .
i don 't see anything in this world that makes sense .
you prefer to be alone ?
i feel safer that way .
don 't forget , i 'm not alone in that respect .
i have the force of music , running like a wild fountain in my head .
that alone , i am never at peace .
and i love the feeling music gives me .
i 'll never compromise that , for nothing in this world .
nothing .
not even myself .
i will starve myself for music .
no way , can never give it up .
out of the way !
calm down !
out of the way !
may your future be bright !
everywhere i go i see injustice
in government and our nonsense policies
marxism , socialism , call it what you want
capitalism all na the same oppression dey
injustice , misuse of power na dem specialty
pretending they want to help the human race 1 , 2 , 3 , 4
wetin dem dey wait for ?
5 , 6 , 7 , 8
dem no say time no dey wait 1 , 2 , 3 , 4
wetin dem dey wait for ?
5 , 6 , 7 , 8 ,
dem just dey waste our lives away
the shrine is the home of all things african .
i love femi with all my heart .
femi is a god in nigeria .
before dem get power dem make promises
when dem get power dem start dem conspiracy
dem dey go dey bobo us , dem go dey post us
you see now time don go , election come again
in africa we say only the lion borns the lion .
and if a lion borns a goat ... there 's a problem .
so , as the lion born the lion , the lion born the lion .
hey , pay attention , fuckers ...
you stole that wurlitzer from my shop .
i want it back .
this isn 't what it looks like .
the gay mafia are after me .
i need this cash !
i know where to find you jukebox , and the ass-clown who boosted it .
someone wishes to buy this cursed business that haemorrhages money .
you 're selling the dealership ?
this place is richard 's dream , and the it 's the only thing holding this family together .
your dream lounge , the summerwind ?
you pinned all your hopes on the only emotion connection you ever had with ken !
the song that he played for you as a baby !
help us get out of here !
oh god !
aliens ?
meghan ?
she is all yours now .
i am having this baby .
baby !
i 'll drive !
oh my gosh , do something !
come back here !
escape the country ?
what ?
good idea , meghan .
oh my god !
no thanks , everyone .
i 'm fine .
hello ?
hello ?
a lot of stupid shit goes through your mind when you 're breaking out of prison .
but when the spotlight is on you and you 've got your nuts in a vise , the only thing that matters is getting the fuck out .
escape is a state of mind .
and there 's no prison that fitzy can 't break out of .
no way !
meghan ?
fitz ?
fuck .
where the fuck 's houdini when you need him ?
oh , for the love of fuck , it 's coming !
don 't worry , miss devon , we will get you to the hospital safe and sound and in time to witness this beautiful , miraculous ....
i need motherfucking drugs .
i got some meth , but it 's prison meth .
i got hash , and oxy contin .
oxy ?
i could use a hit .
get in line .
you 're fucking kidding me .
halfsies ?
i 'm the one in labour .
try to hold off having the kid in the car , will ya ?
it 'll stain the leather and kill the re-sale value .
whoa !
what the fuck are you doing ?
fuck , you don 't have to have it in the ditch !
oh , i 'm not .
get out !
what the hell did i do ?
what haven 't you done !
you 're unemployed , you 've never made it to any of the doctor 's appointments , you 're never around !
i broke out of prison !
for you !
when have you ever done anything in your life for anyone but yourself ?
okay , food for thought .
and since richard is an escaped convict , maybe we can ponder this on the road .
let 's - can we get a move on , please ?
you shut the fuck up !
i will not let you smear your failure all over this baby .
get out of my life , you fucking loser !
hey !
hey !
fuck !
richard !
don 't leave me here with this crazy broad !
oh god !
richard !
richard , i know this is a trying time for us , but it 's also an excellent opportunity to dig deep , and find out what 's really going on here .
huh ?
breathe !
breathe !
no , really , what 's going on here ?
she thinks i 'm a loser !
no , i doubt that 's true .
did you hear me , fitz ?
you 're a fuckin ' loser !
i can 't have my fucking kid thinking his old man is a loser !
let 's work on this in the car !
i have to get the dealership back from those two carbomb-istanis .
let 's figure out how to pay for that in the car !
you get her to the hospital , i 'll take care of the dealership .
and evade the police ?
i 'll call you in an hour .
two hours .
oh !
that 's right !
drive !
find the closest motel !
oh , i can handle this .
i don 't need him .
i 've been through worse .
i told you the kid was a loser .
he 's actually a winner now , sir .
richard has decided to make the baby proud , and buy back the dealership .
the dealership ?
yep .
over my dead body !
you said you didn 't want it .
first rule of business :
lie .
you should be proud too , ali , because you and the baby are having a positive effect on the fitzpatricks .
hey !
hey !
it 's true .
oh ...
what are you doing !
hey !
that 's my truck , man !
you can 't keep me here , you know .
this is a men 's prison .
i 'm a woman .
it is clearly a violation of the , uh ...
geneva convention .
and if i actually get violated , that 's another violation .
so let me take a wild guess ...
you just happened to be in the neighbourhood on the night that your brother and father broke out of jail ?
no , stupid !
i was here because my stupid brother 's stupid girlfriend was in stupid labour , so ...
she is ?
where did they take her ?
what can you do for me ?
i 'm up on tax evasion charges because of my dad 's church scam ...
i want immunity .
by the power invested in me by the town of coverton , i now declare you not guilty , okay ?
they were headed back into town .
daddy and richard were fighting about the dealership ,
ali was all like , " i 'm havin ' a baby , i 'm a fuckin ' idiot ! , " so ...
thank you .
okay .
arrest her .
what ?
aiding and abetting escaped prisoners .
you can 't do that !
put me down !
what the fuck !
gentlemen ...
it 's been a pleasure .
we countersign when we get the money .
you get the $ 500,000 when you sign these documents .
well , it would appear we are in the midst of a mexican stand-off .
i blackmailed elaine fitzpatrick for her shares in this dealership .
you think i 'm scared of you ?
sign !
thank you .
if we did not need the money , never would i sell to that harpy !
they need both our signatures to sell , cousin ...
and right now , she only has yours .
swift thinking , cousin !
once again , the ruptals have tactical advantage .
excellent .
fitzpatrick motors , currently run by the far superior cousins ruptal .
not for long , fucks .
i want to buy my dealership back .
i made a mint on that church scam .
it 's the infirm fitzpatrick !
he too wishes to purchase the dealership !
let 's negotiate .
haggle !
you know , foreplay , for you ethnics .
the flashing lights of opportunity dance around us , cousin !
we will sell the dealership twice !
meet us at the dui .
bring cash .
fuck .
license and registration .
of course .
my name is paco .
paco vasquez .
i 'm on my way to a costume party .
that 's funny , mr vasquez .
you look an awful lot like an apb they just put out ...
ken fitzpatrick .
look , officer , i 'm just trying to do a little business here .
yeah , me too .
i got a buddy looking for you .
a real good buddy , if you know what i mean .
fuck .
the gay mob .
cocksucker !
you say that like it 's a bad thing .
out of the car .
fuck !
hey fitzy !
i can see that orange jumpsuit from 5000 feet !
what the fuck , josh ?
just here to get my stash , and i 'm out of here , man .
no , no ...
fuck , josh , i need your help !
bad timing , fitzy .
i gotta get out of the country before i kill the ruptals .
you leave now , your c.o. ' s just gonna send someone else .
oh god , you 're right , they 're doomed .
- no - somebody 's got to do it
somebody 's got to do it
somebody 's got to do it
somebody 's got to
somebody 's got to do it
- diane , diane
- thomas , thomas
thomas
it 'ii be ok
it was just a mild one
- yeah
you called me diane
thomas
i can 't take it anymore
i 'm worried about sarah
she 's weird
sometimes i think she 's talking to me in my head
she needs her father
everybody keeps calling to find out when blanche 's funeral will be
i don 't know what to tell them
you act like nothing happened
you spend your whole days organizing boxing matches , i
i 'm really sorry stephanie
you really loved armand , eh ?
i just want him to come back
- well , gastonne said if there 's no news soon , they 'ii organize a search party
- just want him back
did samuei say anything , since last night ?
- he mumbles all the time
sometimes you can make out words , sometimes not
- he 's like that since , uh
- since the accident
about ten years ago , a bunch of iumberjacks left in a helicopter to work in the north
coming back , the chopper crashed
they all died except sam
some hunters found him , iike that , two weeks later
- he wasn 't hurt ?
- no
- got cells got cells
cells cells
you 're tuned in to great bear radio with simone letendre
at the bear 's growl , it will be exactly 9 o 'ciock
rise and shine my little bear cubs !
how are you this morning ?
the awakening wasn 't too hard ?
no , tv still isn 't back but we were treated to a new episode starring one of our citizens , last night
poor armand , poor stephanie
ah , but it 's not easy finding love
each time we open the door to our heart to let love in , we never know what else can get in at the same time , huh ?
fear , pain , malice
but maybe also tenderness , joy , happiness
who knows ?
we never know
- happy birthday darling !
but , marie , i don 't drink
one glass of wine and i 'm drunk
- this is for the day i leave you
you won 't be able to do without this
- i iove your sense of humour
- yeah , it 's yours rubbing off
- keep it
but i never want you to use it because i 'ii never leave you
- i promise
where is my real gift ?
- come here
marie !
ok , the paper in doctor mondoux 's hand : did you find out what it is ?
- yeah
- and ?
what were you doing at the von trieck 's last night ?
- we wanted to talk to sarah
- what did she say ?
- well nothing
- what was the doctor 's paper ?
- give me a break ok ?
we had an agreement
since the beginning i 've given you all i 've had and i don 't get anything back in return
- yes i know - you 're hiding things from me
you went to see pierre too
did he give you the idea to talk to sarah ?
what did he say to you ? - go ask him , you 'ii find out
he doesn 't want to speak to me and everyone at the station thinks he 's a freak
- you don 't say ?
- hey there , bottle neck
quit it , all right ?
spit it out or else
- swear that you won 't use it against pierre
- biron , you can 't sell out your sources to the police like that
- you can 't treat my friends this way either
- hey that 's him
- pierre was at blanche 's house the night she died
he said he saw the kids bring her body back
- come on the kids didn 't kill blanche
- no , i don 't think so either but stephanie said sarah saw someone take off on a four-wheeier
- aren 't you
that famous journalist ?
- yeah , aren 't you ?
bernard
- yeah , yeah , louis-bernard lapointe
- that 's it !
that 's it ! - well hi
- hi
- hi
so what about samuei 's sentence ? " got cells " ?
- lapointe thinks it has to do with the accident ten years ago , but
- the iumberjacks ?
- yeah , the iumberjacks
- don 't you have , iike a talent , a magic trick or something ?
or a malformation or a scar
- come on
- what ? scars are cool
- no , no i won 't be a clown in your freak show , all right ?
- if you change your mind
- no , i won 't change my mind , forget it ok ?
- let 's go we 'ii stop bothering mr big star
- so , now that the stool pigeon has talked , could we find out what was on doctor mondoux 's paper ?
- a small piece of a scientific magazine
- like any of the hundreds in his office great !
- like any of the hundreds , yes
but why that one ?
i did some research ;
it 's from " neuroscience en avant "
and guess who 's on the cover ?
edouard paquette
the scientist who 's in great bear to fix the tv signal
i ordered the magazine from the national library
- which will probably get here in two to three days
so , in the mean time
biron ?
in the mean time , tell me the story of the iumberjacks
- there were twelve guys
- we call them the iumberjacks but they didn 't really have any skills
kind of the losers of the area
and when you 're considered a loser in great bear
- cream of the crop for sure
- the municipality hired them to work on a piece of land where they would have put up a radar station
- a radar station ?
but , that 's not municipal department
- i just called the mayor 's office
the documents about that contract have disappeared from the files
- we have to talk to the mayor , to your father
- he won 't say anything
if the documents aren 't there , he decided it
if they still exist though , i know where they are
in the safe in his office
- let me guess ; the problem is that he 's the only one who knows the combination
- no , the problem is that he 's the only one who has the key
and he always keeps it on him
- i have good news and bad news
- the bad news ?
- there 's no doubt the waves producing the images on tv are of identical nature to the ones i was obtaining with my device , ten years ago
- incredible the good news ?
- i 've identified what could be the emitting source or at ieast a relay
those dishes down there
- we 're getting closer
- who could be doing that ?
aii of my ex-coiiaborators have been contacted , it 's beyond me
- exactly whoever is doings this is beyond you paquette
i find this most exciting
the more reason for me to worry
i don 't want to interview edouard paquette
i just want to talk to him for two minutes
what 's the difference ?
listen , can you just tell me where i can find him ?
- even gastonne can 't talk to him
ok , after " got cells " ?
" be there where the thief dances "
what does that mean ?
every time we get a lead , it goes absolutely nowhere
we have a new sentence which gives us a new lead and it 's a complete mess
- no , no biron
those leads don 't stop , they slow down
and they all point in the same direction
- oh yeah ?
which one ? - i don 't know yet
but i trust blanche 's clues
- so , go join pierre lamy 's gang
- the hairdresser ?
actually , i 'm certain we 'd find very interesting things in that book he took from blanche 's house
- blanche 's big book is full of old wives ' tales spread over thirteen generations
- biron , to solve a problem , you have to go back to its origins
you have to cut it at the root
fine ok
not only are the leads we have absolutely ludicrous , they 're cold as ice
the only concrete facts we have are the article about edouard paquette found in doctor mondoux 's hand and the missing file on the iumberjacks
- edouard paquette , don 't you find that strange ?
a neurologist to fix a tv signal problem ?
- that accident always seemed very strange to me
and now , the tv freaks out
we have to open beiiveau 's safe
- no , that 's illegal
- i don 't give a damn
at least , it isn 't " esoteric blah blah " ; it 's concrete stuff
- picking the chief of police 's pocket never did anybody any good
i have an idea
beiiveau might be the chief
hello ?
this is emiie biron , yes
you wanted louis-bernard lapointe for your gala ?
you shall have him
- out of the question !
- under one condition
- no , no , no !
- did you hear what armand said on tv ?
he 's in deep shit
- christian , the merchandise isn 't for you
- to be a good salesman , you have to know your product
- we only have one buyer and they 're very satisfied ;
it 's not necessary
- only one buyer , for now but i have some expansion projects
- georges , your son is completely stoned
- never mind christian
what were you doing with lapointe ?
- what , lapointe ?
- yes , lapointe
- yes - you spend a iot of time with him
- i 'm not denying it either
he 's a charming man , we have a iot in common
anyway , it 's none of your business anymore georges
- a iot in common ! we have a son ; we have a family in common what do you want ; you want us to get married ?
then we 'ii get married
- no , you don 't understand
- mr ferron !
we 're ready
- where are you ? who are you talking to ?
there 's an emergency here , christian isn 't in any shape
montreal will be phoning in two seconds
- i 'ii call you later , ok ?
love you
christian ferron
hello
- christian , you 'ii have to admit that our second date can 't be any worse than the first
- did you know that your voice is really sexy ?
- i won 't say i 've never been told before
i have a feeling we 'ii get along , you and i , christian
our deal will go a iot smoother this time , right ?
- the first time , we didn 't know each other
i 've told you my name , what 's yours ?
- call me bird - it 's dove , isn 't it ?
- what ?
- i guessed it , didn 't i ?
your voice is so soft , it suits you , dove
- you don 't scare me with your big guns
you don 't want to tell me your real name ?
i 'ii call you dove - ok
- dove ?
help , somebody !
heiene , heiene !
i just want him to come back blanche
make him come back , i beg of you !
hush , you can 't make any noise
people will hear you , stop it
i don 't know what i was expecting by coming here so late tonight , if only to see you again for a moment
hope to see you soon
sarah is asleep
don 't worry , things will work out
- i just wonder where great bear is going without blanche
- to hell most likely
but you know , she isn 't really gone yet
- you feel her too ?
but it 's like she 's mute , like sarah
- do you know why the natives never settled near great bear ?
- no
- when i was young , one of my really old great-aunts came to visit from holland
my grandfather showed her around the mine and the town
in those days it was still the " von trieck mine "
he was proud
then my great-aunt , who had pretty much the same powers as blanche , asks my grandfather what " refracting stones " are
so my grandfather explains ;
refracting stones are rocks used to build chimneys , stones that you can heat up as much as you want they will never crack
when she hears that , my great-aunt is overtaken by vertigo and starts shouting : " stop !
stop ! "
you should have seen it ;
the guys in the mine were freaking out
so my grandfather takes her by the shoulders and asks her :
" what 's the matter ? "
she manages to catch her breath , and all cross-eyed , starts saying : " you shouldn 't move this rock , it is rock that never burns ;
god put it there to block the gates of hell
if you keep digging , demons from the abyss will come to the surface and torment you "
then my grandfather grabs her , shoves her in the truck and says : " crazy old woman , go back where you came from , you prophet of doom ! "
well , you know what ?
the natives had the same legend pretty much word for word
that 's why they never settled near great bear
- so what ?
you think that
- i think i don 't like prophets of doom !
- come on , bianche wasn 't a prophet of doom !
- how would you know , ferron ?
no , but really
how would you know ?
- rum and coke , just the way you iike it
i 'm glad you came by
i have things to be forgiven for
- oh yeah ?
what 's that ?
- you can go
i 'm not keeping you
- you know very well what i want
- you know very well that i won 't give it to you
you 'ii have to wait until the deal is done to get your share , like the rest of us
- i need money to leave town
and if dove knows i 'm involved , it 's not good for you either
- i know , but if dove finds you , she 'ii kill you
so i bet you 'ii make sure she doesn 't know you 're here
see how much i trust you ?
- i 'm not alone in this
what about christian ?
do you really trust him ?
- he 's my son
i 'm giving him a chance to earn my trust
lay low for a few days and everything will be fine
- you like it ?
- huh ? what ?
- you like it , eh ?
- yes , yes , yes , emiie , emiie !
emiie , emiie !
- yeah , yeah , yeah
- let 's go
- where ?
- i don 't know
aii she said was : " i have to talk to you "
then she hung up come on , hurry up !
- no , i 'm much better now
i should be going
you got what you wanted ?
yeah
it 's been clear , lately , that i will never have anything else
even this , i didn 't think anyway
- emile
what lapointe said about me that i 'm an opportunist and unhappy
- ah , forget about that
- no , no , there 's truth in that , i know
but i 'd iike you to give me a second chance , because
i don 't want to stay unhappy
think about it , ok ?
yeah , ok
i 'ii think about it
she 's here
- would you stop saying " she " ?
- he , she it doesn 't matter
- forgive me girls i haven 't slept in two days
i 'm translating the book
- and what does it say ?
- a iot of things but
this isn 't blanche 's book
- what do you mean , it isn 't blanche 's book ?
bianche gave it to you
- she didn 't give it to me
i took it
- so , what does that change ?
- you stole it
that changes everything
he 's not the heiress to the powers
- explain yourself
- every one of these books was written over thirteen generations
- yes , one chapter per generation , and ?
- the thirteenth chapter of this book has already been written
- then blanche wrote the thirteenth
- blanche didn 't write in this book
and she didn 't write the thirteenth chapter of any book
- what do you mean ?
- get it out of here !
get it out !
- take the book outside !
pierre , pierre , it 's all right
it 's ok , it 's all right
we have to get him to the hospital
go look in the back , there must be a wheelbarrow
we 'ii roll him to the car
the
the book is gone
are you sure ?
at dawn on a spring day in 1528 , a spanish fleet from cuba prepared to land an army of conquistadors on the shores of north america ,
they had come to find new lands of gold
it was thursday the 14th of april , 1528 , when they came ashore .
the beginning of the most disastrous of all the expeditions of the conquistadors , and yet one of the great epic stories in the history of the americas .
the spanish had called this florida , the land of flowers ,
but they found a strange and evil country ,
that summer , over 300 conquistadors struggled through these swamps ,
their leader , panphilo de narvaez , was arrogant and incompetent ,
they had no interpreters , their food supplies ran out ,
and worse , they were picked off by hostile tribes ,
the last survivors of those native peoples are still here , the seminole ,
they have fiercely defended their independence ever since ,
so you are the only native american people within the usa who never submitted ...
right . the only tribe to never sign a treaty of submission .
the elements of florida , a very , very good ally .
snakes and alligators , europeans worried more about them .
again , these people had no knowledge of florida .
narvaez had been licensed by the king of spain to discover and conquer florida ,
he hoped to find cities here with large populations and gold
instead , he found a poor landscape totally unsuitable for colonisation ,
but he pushed his army on further into the nightmare ,
" if only narvaez had come here to seek the well-being of the indians , " one spaniard wrote , " and not to wade through their blood to gain ill-gotten wealth , "
but his capacities did not come up to his dreams ,
with autumn coming on , the expedition was on the point of collapse ,
hoping now just to save their lives , they struggled down to the sea below tallahassee ,
but there was no sign of their ships ,
the fleet had given them up for dead
they 're starving , disillusioned , and narvaez weighs up the situation .
he thinks the spanish settlements in mexico are only a few leagues down the coast .
in fact , they 're 1,000 miles .
so he decides to build boats to escape .
and on the 22nd of september , nearly 300 survivors set sail in five barges .
( thunder )
in terrible weather , they tried to sail across the gulf of mexico , past the mississippi ,
narvaez himself was never seen again ,
we would know nothing of this story , but for the captain of one of the barges , a young spanish gentleman called a lvar nunez cabeza de vaca ,
cabeza de vaca wrote a remarkable account of his adventures and with it we set out to follow him across the gulf of mexico , to find out which way wind and tide might have taken him that autumn ,
he was coming out of this part of florida ,
the green arrows indicate the current and speed and , as you see , it gets pretty swift .
- along the mississippi delta .
- the arrows show the predominant direction ?
the predominant direction of the current .
0ccasionally , a lot of fronts come through , push the wind offshore and those tend to be very strong winds that 'll push offshore .
the predominant wind is from the southeast .
that 's interesting .
when they pass the mississippi mouth , they get caught up in a storm coming from the north that blows them right out to sea and nearly drowns them , in fact .
" in the end , " says cabeza de vaca ,
" we commended ourselves to god and the dangers of the sea ,
" and there was not a man among us who did not think that death was certain ,
" none of us had any idea of havigation ,
" for six weeks we were lost , " eating rotten maize , drinking sea water , which drove some men mad
" i was at the helm that night , i had prepared to die ,
" and then , in the darkness , we heard breakers , " we were near land "
it was the 6th of november , 1528 ,
at dawn , they came inshore ,
but the boat capsized in the surf ,
too weak to swim , some of the men were drowned
they found themselves on a windswept shore unseen before by white men ,
galveston island , texas ,
how far up do you think they went ?
you know , given how weak he was , i don 't think he probably went much further than you 're going .
0ne of them climbed an oak tree to see where they were ,
- i can see it !
i can see the bay !
- yeah .
i think they guessed the island was about half a league wide .
maybe a mile and a half or so . that would be about right , would it ?
- at the widest point .
- yeah .
and then they could actually , on a good , clear day like today , see the mainland across the bay .
and you recognise that you 're on an island .
but the island was inhabited by karankawa indians .
they were hunter gatherers and they only came here during the fall .
they usually left at the end of february and the beginning of march and would return to the mainland and ...
but this was what you might call their winter residence , like the new yorkers go to florida .
" we had expected to be sacrificed , " says cabeza de vaca ,
" but when the indians saw our misery they sat down with us and began to weep , too ,
" those uncivilised , savage men were sorry , for us ,
" and they shared what little food they had "
you know , you look at all these great expeditions of the conquistadors and the terrible events that happened in the new world , pizarro and everything else .
and here is a story where the man begins here on this spot
- to become the other , doesn 't he ?
- exactly .
and it 's the indians who give him the first clue to this transformation , isn 't it ?
they cry for him and he realises the common humanity , don 't you think ?
they saw people destitute , in pain .
they were moved by compassion to help them and aid them in the process and so they saved cabeza de vaca , to their own detriment .
it 's ...
- they were exterminated in the end . - they were .
the karankawas began to die of european diseases that same winter ,
they vanished for good in the course of the 18th century ,
but they kept cabeza de vaca alive with the food of the island
that 's razor sharp .
so there 's an oyster bed running all the way down this little inlet ?
yes , and there are places out here where there are oysters for several miles and , during low tide , they 're exposed , probably at the time when they harvested them .
i don 't know how many people they were trying to feed , but i wouldn 't starve .
the expedition had been scattered to the winds ,
the men from another barge were slaughtered by indians up the coast , one group reduced to eating their dead shipmates ,
but cabeza de vaca survived on oysters and roots ,
this plant ...
this is a cattail .
and this is probably what he was speaking of when he said that he was breaking those nuts off to eat .
it is like a nut .
extraordinary .
it was easy pickings .
they could just walk out and pick it up and there are acres and acres of oysters that are exposed at low tide .
but of the 300 men who left florida , only four would survive ,
( tann0y ) please do not walk or stand in front of any vehicle while the vessel is approaching ... ( michael ) the karankawas were nomadic , in the spring , they crossed over to the mainland
and they took cabeza de vaca with them ,
they had thought him a superior man , but with no skills , he was an extra mouth to feed and he became their slave ,
he was brutally treated , but they kept him alive ,
after five or six years of that life , cabeza de vaca decided he 'd had enough .
it was time to escape .
not out to sea , but into the interior .
the interior of texas at that time was completely unknown to the outside world
but during those years , cabeza de vaca had got to know many of the nomadic tribes who lived inland
some of them he describes for the first time ,
coahuiltecans , tonkawas , atakapan ,
but that was not all , he 'd also discovered that one of the coastal tribes had sheltered three other survivors of the shipwreck , who were still alive ,
they met up and made their break for freedom ,
their plan was to walk 1,000 miles to mexico city ,
they couldn ' t go south because of hostile tribes ,
so they decided to walk to the pacific , but which way ?
it used to be thought that they took a northern route through new mexico and a rizona , down into spanish mexico ,
but there 's another possibility - that they crossed the rio grande near the sea and turned west inside mexico ,
the clues are in cabeza de vaca 's book , 0ne of the few copies to survive is in san marcos , and there i met don 0lsen ,
so this is an original copy of cabeza de vaca 's story ?
yes , it is .
and the page we 're most interested in , in the research we did , is page 40 .
there are four physical clues , all that happen on the same page here .
there 's a mountain of seven leagues , which would be 20 or 21 miles long .
" una sierra de sieta leguas . " yes .
and the stones there were like scoria of hierro .
- iron slag . - iron slag .
down near the bottom of the page , he finds some trees .
pines with pinones .
and there again you see the pinones .
and the words that really catch our eye down there are right there .
that means their shells were very thin .
so this is a very particular kind of pine tree .
a very particular kind .
the other two clues are much harder .
he says , " they gave us many small sacks of margarita and alcohol molido . "
now , those are minerals .
people before us have translated that word , or transcribed it , i should say , as margarita , which can mean pearls or pearl mica , which is abundant in the deserts of arizona and new mexico and they 've used this to support the northern route .
if you look closely , do you see what i see ? that word is not margarita .
- the second r isn 't the same as the first r .
it has a descender down to the left which prints very faintly .
you see it there ?
if you look closely , you see it 's actually margaxita with an x .
margaxita .
what does that mean ?
- what that means is iron pyrites .
- iron pyrites .
so the spaniards walked into a land rich in minerals , to follow them , we crossed the rio grande and entered the desolate landscape of horthern mexico ,
, searching for cabeza de vaca 's route into unknown america , just over there .
( reads spanish ) " we marched along , mountain range seven leagues long . "
they walked the whole length of this sierra in one day .
they were the first europeans to walk across the continent ,
they gave us the first account of the people here ,
but it 's never been traced on the ground
maybe we can ask them about the pine trees .
do you want to roll your window down ?
( speak spanish )
much of his story , is still misunderstood because we don 't know for sure what route he took ,
we 're looking for the pinones with very , very thin shells .
if we knew his route , then his account might begin to reveal a lost history , of these lands , and now , as then , local knowledge is all ,
- the old man knows about them .
- ( they speak spanish )
muchas gracias .
gracias .
bye-bye .
- so the old man knew about them ?
- yeah .
fantastic .
great .
we 're on the right track .
the old herder had sent us on to a dried-up river bed and there were the pine trees ,
- so this is one of them ?
- yeah .
it 's amazing to think that paper shell pinon was only identified by science in 1979 .
and how easy to imagine the spaniards feasting on the kernels ,
- there 's still some on the floor .
- yeah .
it was the best food they 'd had for days ,
- this year is not ... was not a good season .
- yeah ?
when they 're still green , you just grind them up , make a ball and eat them , if they 're dry , eat them with the shells too ,
( crunching )
you see how thin it is .
that 's what cabeza de vaca 's talking about .
that 's what the indians here used as food along with the nopal cacti that we passed on the way .
but to clinch his route , we needed to find his mountain of iron ,
the locals sent us up a place called mercado , the hill of wealth , 5,000 ... more than 5,000 feet up the mountain .
cabeza de vaca says the people here smelted metals ,
they gave him a worked copper bell ,
there are copper deposits here and there 's also a huge quarry ,
it 's golden brown with iron ore , strewn with pyrites and iron slag ,
so this whole vast excavation here has been done for the iron ?
yes , they 've dug out this , made the hole .
then some rocks have fallen in from the sides .
( michael ) some of the other clues you might be able to help on , as a geologist .
they find something , which everybody argues over .
they call it alcohol molido , powdered alcohol , which some people say could be stibnite , lead sulphide .
there 's also black manganese around the outside here .
it 's called pyrolusite .
the indians used it as paint .
and that 's exactly what cabeza de vaca says ,
" a black powder used by indian women to paint their faces , "
0k .
i found it .
hey , we 've got some manganese here .
fantastic .
so you think this could be it ?
well , it 's the kind of manganese we call pyrolusite and it sure comes off black .
wow .
brilliant .
i left monclova feeling sure cabeza de vaca had come this way ,
he wasn 't moving through the nomadic peoples of central texas ,
he was among the settled communities here in north mexico ,
people who lived in houses , worked metals and had long-distance trade ,
the ancestors of today 's people ,
the next few weeks , he tells us , they walked 300 or 400 miles across dry plains into barren mountains ,
they were heading northwards now , back up towards the rio grande , but they weren 't wandering aimlessly ,
they spoke the languages and moved from one community to another on ancient trails , which now crossed and recrossed a great river ,
these trails are marked on us military , maps from the 1850s , 0ne of them was called the great comanche trail ,
going back down into mexico , it met the rio grande at the grand indian crossing ,
these trails can be thousands of years old , maybe even used by the first migrants over 12,000 years ago ,
we took an expert guide with us , linda walker , and team archeologist bob mallouf .
and all along the trail , we found places where human beings had once lived
cabeza de vaca 's journey had begun to reveal the vanished map of ancient america ,
the sheltered part and it probably ran further out .
this is one of the better pictograph sites that we 've come up to .
you can see that they 're all over this panel .
( b0b ) those are beautiful pictographs .
late prehistoric pictographs .
- what 's late prehistoric ?
- 500 ad to as late as 1550 .
0n the basis of art size .
we could still make out the finger marks of the artists ,
what are they depicting ?
this looks like something with legs .
uh , it ...
they 're difficult or impossible , as a rule , to interpret accurately , although a lot of people try . 0h .
so could any of these be religious in significance ?
we can probably assume that they practised certain kinds of shamanistic religion .
certainly with healers and this sort of thing .
this was the kind of religion that cabeza de vaca and his friends encountered along this route .
and they thought cabeza de vaca was a shaman .
they went to him to become healed and they would go to him just like people would go to a medical doctor today and it 's possible that could have saved their lives .
what 's the lifestyle of these people ?
- well , they 're ... - ( linda ) hard .
there wouldn 't have been great hospitality at the table in the evening .
( b0b ) we have hard archaeological evidence that they would eat just about anything they could get their hands on .
bob 's hard evidence came from the ancient human excrement in the rubbish dumps on these camp sites ,
when cabeza de vaca said they were eating worms and spiders , he wasn 't telling lies ,
the spanish gentleman was tasting the life most humans had lived since the stone age ,
that night we found a campsite overlooking the desert , , on the great prehistoric route into central america ,
the place was an abandoned indian settlement ,
we found grinding holes , just as cabeza de vaca describes ,
these are probably 2,000 ... 3,000 bc to as late as 500 ad .
see they 're very tapered ... so you have a wooden pounder and pound the seeds or whatever you used inside .
seeds , mesquite beans , things like that they would ground .
they would ground up in these and powder them to make meal .
- wonderful .
- these are good examples .
cabeza de vaca says these holes were used to grind mesquite beans to make the hallucinogens for the indian ceremonies ,
he also describes the way they cooked food
( linda ) look at that .
boiling the water with hot stones from the fire ,
that is hot .
i 've never seen that done .
- 0oh .
- there we go .
so they do this because they don 't have ceramics .
they don 't have ...
they can 't put a pot on the fire to heat water .
probably because they moved about frequently .
pottery is not very conducive to a lot of movement in this country especially , because it 's so rocky and it 's easily broken .
- so where are the teabags ?
- come on .
- english breakfast or earl grey ?
- i don 't know .
( linda ) you guys are supposed to be the experts on this , michael .
as cabeza de vaca said , " how diverse and strange are human beings and their ways , "
the four men had now reached the very , middle of the continent , but did they still feel like conquistadors ?
did cabeza de vaca , the gentleman ?
he had the chance to see this world before it was destroyed by the conquistadors and exploiters who followed but how much he leaves unsaid
( linda ) some burritos ?
( michael ) yeah , that 'd be great , thanks .
0ne thing that i keep wondering about as we 're travelling in the footsteps of cabeza de vaca is that he 's away for seven or eight years ...
you 've got some ?
great .
... and he tells us all sorts of fascinating things about the indians , but he never speaks about his or any of his friends ' relationships with the women .
i don 't think he would have lived that long in a native society without having taken on a woman and i suspect it wasn 't one that was just a short-term scenario either .
it was probably the first infusion of spanish blood into america .
you can bet he wouldn 't mention it , though .
it would have caused him problems with the church probably .
he had to write this to the audience that were now feeding him , which was spain .
and he doesn 't want them to think that he just ditched spanish values and went native .
and went , " these values that i was raised with i 've now decided are suspect . "
no , i don 't think he could do that , but i concur with you .
i think there was an unwritten story there .
and so they continued , following the sun , across the ridges of the sierra madre ,
" though we could speak six indian languages , " says cabeza de vaca , " we found 1,000 differences in their ways of speech ,
" but we were always understood and kept our authority with the indians ,
" though still naked , shedding our skin twice a year like snakes , "
( linda ) this is a tenaha .
this would hold water year round .
it can be anywhere as deep as ten feet , or as shallow as a foot and a half , but there 's always water there .
- ( michael ) and it 's good water ?
- good water .
( traditl0nal f0lk music plays ) and we finally reached the little town of san carlos ,
enrique .
hi . how are you ?
good to see you .
we finally made it .
- do you want a beer ?
- i 'd love one .
( sings in spanish )
- a thrill .
- yup .
you know what ?
it was sure fun .
it had been fun , but it had also told us more about cabeza de vaca and the man he was becoming ,
something has happened to him .
he has been transformed somehow .
he is no long either an indian and he is no longer a spaniard and a christian .
he is a new man .
you speak of him as a man situated in between those two cultures .
i suppose , in a sense , he 's the first modern man , in a way .
do you think ?
learned something that very few spaniards knew , that the indians were human beings .
and many in spain didn 't want human beings at that time .
they wanted slaves .
everywhere on their journey now , they were treated as people with powers , people who could heal ,
to we modern people , this is the least believable part of his story ,
and even in his day , he was accused of fantasising , and worse , claiming supernatural powers ,
" the indian healers do their cures like this , " he says , " by blowing on the sick person and then using their hands to cast the illness out ,
" we did the same , but with the sign of the cross , praying to god to make them better , " and he did
( w0man speaks spanish )
( translat0r ) this is the sacred heart of jesus .
he appears to me when i cure the sick .
0h , and this , this is my protection against the evil spirits who can harm me .
absolutely wonderful mixture of christian symbols and yet the way of working with them is much more traditional and mexican .
it touches back to what was the religion of the whole of the americas in ancient times , this sort of shamanistic religion .
in a sense , cabeza de vaca was the first person to try and cross the boundary between the two and use them both .
" it pleased god to give them health , " says cabeza de vaca , as a 16th-century , man would
" in the future , " he wrote to the king of spain , " these lands will be brought to the true faith , " and though my story , may be difficult to believe , i assure your majesty it is the truth , "
and however we might explain it , thousands of indians clung to them now , asking for their blessings , walking with them through the wilderness ,
the natives were astonished that cabeza de vaca and his friends could walk for a whole day without needing food , " but by then , " says cabeza de vaca , " we were so inured to suffering that we felt no fatigue . "
their guides now led them towards another great native trade route across the americas - the shell trail , which came down from the pueblos of a rizona and new mexico all the way to the pacific ,
" we saw many towns now , " says cabeza de vaca , " built by civilised people , "
they were near the ruined city of casas grandes ,
this astonishing place was once a centre of the shell trade ,
the archaeologists found a ton and a half of shells in these warehouses .
shells for grinding up , for use as decoration on the face of the walls .
shells for personal adornment , necklaces , bracelets .
shells like the pink spondylos , which was used for religious rituals all the way along the pacific coast down to south america .
this place was abandoned a century before cabeza de vaca 's day .
but the commerce and the trade routes on which it was carried still continued .
winter was coming on now as they climbed out of the plains ,
their last hurdle , the immense fissured landscape around copper canyon ,
0ne of the biggest native groups in the americas still lives here , the tarahumara ,
" the people here are the most open and intelligent folk i met , " says cabeza de vaca ,
" their women more modestly and better dressed than in any other part of the indies we 'd seen , "
the tarahumara are descendents of the peoples who once spread all over the high plains of horthern mexico ,
they have borrowed from the europeans only a handful of useful things - the violin , the goat , the apple tree and the metal ploughshare ,
a plow ...
there are no roads through their lands , you still have to go on foot ,
they call themselves the people who walk straight , and they mean in their hearts , as well as with their feet ,
by now cabeza de vaca had seen the first signs of the spanish presence , an indian wearing a sword hilt as an amulet ,
his world was not far off ,
this is where we 'll be sleeping tonight .
and jolly comfy it looks , too .
he knew now he must leave the indian world
but however much he wanted to , he also knew that what he was leaving behind had true worth ,
reading his account , i think that he remained a christian gentleman ,
he still believed in the civilising mission of spain , but he was no longer a conquistador ,
if you had to explain to somebody what it is about this life that is so good , what would the things be that they think are so valuable ?
( speaks spanish )
he had understood that the peoples of the americas were human , too ,
as the tarahumara would put it , cabeza de vaca had learned to walk straight ,
he said , " what 's good about life is that there 's goat shit .
" there 's goat droppings and that 's good , " because we put it on the land , so that the corn will be born to make tortillas with , " to make pinole with and to make tesguino with . "
i said , " why do you make tesguino ? " he says , " to have a fiesta . "
so that you can dance this special dance they do all night , so that god will bring water .
" why do you need water ? " he says , " so that the corn ... will be born . "
there 's the circle . if we kept asking , it would go round .
- fantastic .
- ( speaks tarahumara dialect )
( b0b ) they don 't walk straight any more .
so people like me , we don 't walk straight any more ?
he says , " not hardly at all .
sorry . "
but how would cabeza de vaca use his knowledge on his return ?
the odyssey of cabeza de vaca was drawing to its close ,
that winter they came down forested canyons towards the pacific ,
after more than 2,000 miles , he was about to reenter the world he 'd once known ,
" we came down into a wonderful landscape , " he says , " fertile with rivers , forests and fields ,
" nowhere in the world , in our eyes , could be so rich and beautiful ,
( calls 0ut in spanish )
cabeza de vaca ran into spanish slave hunters ,
it 's a moment which has been portrayed in novels and films ,
( yelling )
and so cabeza de vaca met his old self the man he 'd been all those years before ,
they threatened to enslave his indian companions and to kill him , but he stood his ground and forced them to let him and his indians go ,
and finally , nearly ten years after he left cuba , he walked like a ghost into the town of culiacan , to the astonishment of the local spanish colonists ,
they had been the first people to walk across the continent ,
they 'd seen things no outsider had ever seen ,
but there 's no happy ending to his story ,
when he got back to spain , he argued for benevolent rule in the americas ,
but he was ruined by his enemies and he died a pauper , his only legacy , the book of his adventures ,
while he 'd been lost , the world had changed as never before ,
the conquistadors had carried their swords from florida to chile ,
their bravery , and their greed had led them to lake titicaca and to the heights of machu picchu ,
and the cost ?
ancient civilisations overthrown ,
tens of millions dead from european violence and disease , and the plundering of the natural world of the americas ,
( m0nks chanting )
back in spain , these events woke the conscience of the age and people now began to question the justice of conquest ,
all the great civilisations had treated people not of their own colour or creed as alien ,
but now , in catholic spain , these assumptions were questioned did the indians have human rights ?
what does it mean to be human ?
in 1550 , the king 's counsellors gathered here in valladolid to listen to two great figures of the age , the dominican las casas , speaking for the indians , and the philosopher sepulveda , for the mission of imperial spain ,
this is where the debate was held .
it 's quite a moment in the history of the world .
the first time that principles of universal human rights and global justice were worked out took place here .
sepulveda concluded by saying this - that human beings are not equal , that some are superior to others and that the inhabitants of the new world were natural slaves because they were barbarous and inhumane .
" how can it be doubted that they have been justly conquered " by our most humane nation , which excels in every kind of virtue ? "
las casas spoke second .
staggered in , an enormous pile of documentation , 40 years of research .
the king 's counsellors ' jaws must have dropped .
must have thought he was going to talk for days and he did .
he talked for five days .
and the nub of his argument was this - that the conquests in the new world were wrong and had to be stopped , that the only way was peaceful conversion through love and kindness .
" there 's no nation on earth , " he said , " no matter how savage , cannot attain humane civilisation .
" all the peoples of the world are human beings .
" and the definition of a human being " is that we are all rational things .
" we share the same faculties of will and capacities and understanding .
" we all take pleasure in goodness .
" the war against the natives of the new world is wrong " because it is unjust to wage war against our fellow humans .
" and all the peoples of the world are human . "
( bell rings )
the king listened he ordered a stop to the conquests while the issue was debated further ,
but he couldn ' t stop history , 0n the ground , the conquests continued , driven , as ever , by the lust for gold
and what of the conquistadors themselves , the men who won the new world
what did they think , looking back ?
he died in ...
stuart sterling 's ancestor was one of them ,
he fought in the battles in peru , saw atahualpa dead , married an inca princess , but he had blood on his hands ,
he wrote this extraordinary document , which he addressed to king philip ii .
0n his deathbed , aged 78 , he addressed to the king a remarkable confession ,
" i , captain mancio seirra de leguizamo , make this my last will and testament .
" firstly , for the peace of my soul , i declare for many years now " i have wanted to speak to his catholic majesty , to king philip .
" i wish your majesty to understand the motive that moves me to say this
" is the peace of my conscience , because of the guilt i share .
" for we have destroyed , by our evil deeds , such a government as was enjoyed by these natives " and now they have come to such a pass that these natives , from doing no evil , " have changed to people who now do no good .
" and so i have unburdened my conscience .
" there is nothing more i can do to alleviate these injustices , other than by these words ,
" for i 'm the last to die of the conquistadors . "
in the winter of 1527 , a boat arrived at a lonely island off the pacific shore of south america ,
it had come to rescue a ragged band of desperadoes who 'd been searching the unknown for lands of gold
their leader was an old conquistador called francisco pizarro ,
pizarro still believes that somewhere to the south there 's an undiscovered world .
but his men now have had enough of his promises .
they just want to get out .
" he 's a butcher , a savage !
get us off this hellish beach ! "
then pizarro gets up and he takes his sword and ... draws a line in the sand .
" friends and comrades , " he said , " this side of the line is danger , death , hunger , abandonment .
" this side of the line , comfort and safety .
" that side of the line , go back to panama and you 'll be poor .
" cross over this side and you 'll be rich beyond your wildest dreams . "
13 of them cross over - the glorious 13 , they called them .
they would participate in one of the most amazing events in history - the conquest of an empire which until that moment was unknown to the whole world , the empire of the incas .
unlike the europeans , the incas still lived in sacred time ,
for them , the sun was god and every , day they worshipped his first appearance from the bitter andean night ,
" and we thought this was the whole world , " said one of them ,
" for we knew of ho other , "
until the spanish came ,
in 1532 , pizarro returned to peru with a small private army ,
with him were the survivors from his island , his hometown friends and four of his brothers , as close-knit as a mafia clan ,
ahead of them lay a vast empire and the great inca himself atahualpa ,
in november 1533 , after months of trekking south ,
pizarro reached the foot of the andes ,
we set out to follow in his footsteps ,
( he greets her in spanish )
at first , the local people fed the strangers ,
pizarro himself slept in their houses ,
i 'll be reasonably comfortable !
i shouldn 't have imagined a mattress .
he taught spanish to two indians so he could converse in quechua , the inca language ,
the spanish gathered their first impressions of this great state and its people ,
" how rational the indians are , " said p izarro 's secretary ,
" the people seem very , obedient to their rulers , "
here , the spaniards tasted potatoes for the first time ,
along with more exotic dishesl
there 's an old story that in ancient inca times , there was a period of famine .
the people were starving .
they discovered this furry rodent among the rocks .
it was good to eat and it saved them .
they only eat it for special festivals - religious festivals and so on .
they 're doing it today because they 've got a foreign guest .
next day , we loaded up to follow pizarro into the andes ,
it 's an unbelievable thought - pizarro had 62 horse and 102 foot plus some native allies from further up the coast .
he 's entering an empire of five or ten million !
maybe if he knew , he would go back !
he hadn 't seen the inca army , had he ?
amazing .
amazing .
he 's a canny character , pizarro .
illiterate , middle-aged , tough as old boots .
and very , very clever .
he understood that the incas were a civilisation that , for all its wonders , would be at the level of the bronze age and that with guns and toledo swords he could strike where it really hurt .
the roads of the inca empire stretched 3,000 miles , from chile to ecuador ,
and this one led to the camp of the inca himself at the town of cajamarca ,
" we followed a narrow steep path , " the spanish said , " straight up to the mountain peaks , "
it 's still there , with its inca steps ,
look at this !
is this inca , ricardo ?
nobody but the incas made this kind of work .
look .
i 've got the account of pizarro 's secretary of their journey up this pass . he says how steep the pass was .
when they got to the top , it was defended by a fortress surrounded by stone walls , built on a hill with very steep rocks on either side .
that 's it !
we 're on his tracks !
- almost nobody knows this place in peru .
- really ?
it 's amazing .
the spaniards were seeing things no outsider had ever seen ,
the last moments of a world untouched since the dawn of history ,
after five days ' march over the mountains ,
pizarro came out above the town of cajamarca ,
the campfires of the enemy that night were a terrifying sight , the spanish said .
" like a brilliantly star-studded sky . "
atahualpa 's army , they reckoned , was 30,000 strong ,
the spaniards were on edge now ,
why had they been allowed to come on unopposed
were they walking into a trap ?
pizarro 's secretary , tells the tale ,
" few of us slept that night .
we just talked about what we should do .
" all were full of fear , for we were so few , and so deep into the land .
" and with no hope of rescue . "
the inca , atahualpa , was taking the waters at the hot springs outside the town , and it was here that the two worlds first met ,
the spanish advance party told a tahualpa that pizarro loved him dearly and would fight for him against his enemies ,
" and he smiled , " said the spanish ,
" as if he didn ' t think much of us , "
atahualpa told them they could stay in the town ,
0minously , when the spanish entered the town , they found it empty ,
they occupied a building on the square and waited to see what the inca would do ,
atahualpa 's spies had been watching them all the way ,
his chief spy , apu , reported back ,
we know , from several chroniclers , what apu reported .
he reported to his boss the following .
- 0ne , they are not gods .
- not gods ?
- the inca knew that .
- doesn 't mean the people knew that .
0k ? " i have seen them , " said apu , " i have seen how they get tired . "
0r sick . and a few of them died .
gods don 't die .
they don 't get sick .
but they decided a plan .
they said let 's kill them all except three of them , who are going to be castrated .
the horse-breaker ,
- the iron man ...
- the blacksmith ?
the guy who does the horseshoes and the weaponry .
and the barber .
the horse-breaker and the other one , of course , to establish the cavalry of atahualpa .
but the barber because , apu said , " he knows something .
he has powers .
" i have seen the people lining up in front of his tent .
" they 're tired , really messed up .
" and when they come out , i have seen them rejuvenated , " fresh , health , " and with their skin fresh as a baby 's butt . "
yeah !
atahualpa wanted to have pizarro for lunch .
but pizarro had him for breakfast !
down in the square , as the hours passed , the spanish still waited
" and i tell you , " said one of them , " we were wetting ourselves in terror , "
at last , atahualpa entered the square on the shoulders of his courtiers ,
he was around 30 , handsome and intelligent , the red royal tassel on his forehead and a silky soft cloak made of the skins of vampire bats ,
it 's funny what people remember at such moments of high tension ,
the spanish remembered the lilting song with which the people welcomed him ,
it 's still sung today at festivals in the andes ,
( rhythmic chant )
pizarro watched with his captains and his priest , valverde ,
atahualpa took his seat in the middle of the square ,
valverde stepped forward with a cross and a prayer book and made a speech about christ and the pope .
he called upon the inca to abandon his false religion and embrace christ .
" i follow my religion , " said atahualpa .
" the undying sun and the ancient gods of the incas .
" what is your authority for your religion ? " he said .
the priest held up his book .
" give it to me , " said atahualpa ,
" so i may see if it speaks to me . "
he turned the pages carefully and then looked up .
" why does it say nothing to me ? " he said , and he threw the book on the floor .
that was what pizarro had been waiting for .
it was the moment on which his whole career had converged .
it gave him his pretext for war and he gave the order to attack .
from the porticos all around this square the spanish came out and opened fire on the masses of people crowded here .
inca sticks and fans were no match for spanish guns and steel ,
some said 6,000 people died that night ,
as the rain fell , the square ran red with blood
but atahualpa was captured alive ,
they took him in chains to a prison close-by ,
it 's still there ,
and now atahualpa made an astonishing offer - to ransom himself
if they would set him free , he would fill the room with gold
0n his desert island , had p izarro ever imagined this ?
in his wildest dreams ? the story 's still told and retold across the andes ,
but there are other inca versions of the story , 0ne of them a unique manuscript discovered only in the 20th century ,
( man ) thank you very much .
this is it , the famous " nueva cronica y buen gobierno . "
it 's really exciting to be facing this document , a document which is unique .
because here , you not only see things that are valuable for the past , but also things that will help you to understand the present .
the author , guaman poma , was a man of inca descent ,
( 0ssl0 ) this is the point of view of a vanquished .
0f one of those indians who were conquered by the spanish people .
he 's always insisted that the real owners of the indian territories are the indians and the spaniards are the owners of spain .
and each one in their own realm is perfect .
0rder is perfect .
but if the spanish come here and pretend to be the owners , then that is representing the disorder of the world .
the world is upside down .
- ( w00d ) the world is upside down ?
- yeah .
to gather the gold , atahualpa ordered his people to allow the spanish to travel freely through his empire ,
and the spaniards set out on the greatest plundering raid in history ,
so why did a tahualpa do it ?
according to guaman poma , the inca had never seen the strangers as a threat , now , he thought , if he delivered the gold as promised ,
pizarro would simply go away ,
" at that time , " says guaman poma , " we indians lost all sense of direction , we forgot our gods " and lost the authority of our rulers , "
so pizarro 's men stripped the gold off the greatest shrines in the americas ,
atahualpa filled his ransom room with seven tonnes of it , one of the greatest treasures in all of history ,
he 'd kept his word but what would p izarro do ?
pizarro put atahualpa on trial for treason , the jury , - the pizarro brothers and their friends ,
the verdict - " the inca must die , "
" it was the most despicable thing we ever did in the americas , " said one conquistador ,
in the andes , the people have never forgotten ,
( he speaks quechua )
corazon ?
the heart of a puma , si ?
they killed him like a llama .
for the incas , these events were almost beyond belief
this was a " pachacuti " - the world turned upside down ,
pizarro now marched his army in triumph south , on the inca royal road , a thousand miles to the capital of the inca empire , cuzco ,
" 0n november 15th , 1533 ,
" we spaniards reached cuzco ,
" it was a wondrous thing to behold
" no prize ever equalled this ,
" the streets were grand , " the palaces of finely-jointed stone blocks of great antiquity , "
it was the richest town in all the indies , founded by the first inca and refounded in 1533 by francisco pizarro ,
and so , at last , pizarro looked down on his prize ,
the city of the incas , with its great ceremonial square and the huge palaces of the inca royal clans ,
it was a turning point in the history , of the world
the inca believed this place was the navel of the earth .
it was the sacred centre of the last of the civilisations to arise independently on the planet .
and the fall of the city to the spanish , coming so soon after the fall of mexico , seems now like the beginning of the end for the traditional civilisations of the world .
the end of sacred time .
the triumph of profane time .
for pizarro 's expedition was a profit - making venture backed by the bankers of europe ,
from now on , across the atlantic , the talk was of hothing but peru and gold
europe was amazed spaniards flooded into peru on a gold rush ,
the pizarro brothers flaunted their new-found fortunes ,
for them , these were days of wonder as they tightened their grip on the people and the riches of p eru ,
to win hearts and minds , the pizarros appointed a puppet king , atahualpa 's half-brother manco ,
but the spaniards treated him with contempt ,
to the incas ' horror , gonzalo pizarro raped manco 's wife and took her for himself
word soon spread of a war of liberation ,
manco summoned his leaders to a secret meeting ,
perhaps it took place in the inca sun temple which still stands today inside a cuzco church ,
manco 's words were recorded by his son tito cusi ,
" i 've summoned you all here , " said manco , " because we all know now clearly who these foreigners really are .
" they 're not worthy people sent by god , " but children of the devil .
" we 've endured a thousand insults , they treat us like dogs " while swearing to be our friends .
" now i want you to send your messengers throughout the whole country .
" summon all your forces to gather here in cuzco in 20 days ' time " to attack them .
" make sure the bearded ones hear nothing about this " and we 'll kill every last one of them .
" then , perhaps , we may waken from this nightmare . "
manco 's plan was a concerted attack all over peru , above cuzco , a vast inca army gathered in the hills ,
the spaniards were surrounded cut off in lima , francisco pizarro sent frantic pleas to mexico for help ,
three relief columns were wiped out by manco 's armies , here in cuzco ,
spanish survival hung on whether they could take the inca fortress which controlled the city at sacsayhuaman ,
the spaniards were outnumbered and , at times , outfought ,
juan pizarro was killed but in the end , the incas were outgunned
the last battle for these walls was fought with a desperate heroism by the inca warriors .
like the aztec battle for mexico city , it recalls the great classical epics like the " iliad , " the siege of troy .
the last of the great inca heroes , they say , stood on top of these rocks armed with a european sword , throwing the spanish off , killing members of his own side if they thought of surrendering to the spaniards .
in the end , when it was clearly all hopeless , he threw his weapons down , stuffed his mouth with earth , scourged his face and threw himself off the rocks in fulfilment of his vow that he would die rather than give in to the spanish .
" and so our encirclement was broken , " says guaman poma ,
" the spaniards had bought themselves a breathing space , "
the pizarros now took savage reprisals against the civilian population , the women and children who helped manco 's army ,
a massive exodus followed as those who could fled north into the sacred valley ,
the sacred valley was the inca heartland
here they built their finest palaces with huge terraces to grow maize and coca leaves ,
here , manco and his high priest could call on the help of the ancestors ,
at machu picchu , the mummies of the dead incas could be brought out of their womb-like chambers to greet the sun ,
their dead eyes regaled as in life with the vistas of the sacred peaks ,
- ~ buenos dias !
- ~ buenos dias !
according to guaman poma , manco built new terraces and houses here to feed and shelter the influx of troops and refugees ,
you can still see them at 0llantaytambo , with its inca housing plots and water channels ,
the incas boasted that manco had made this the strongest fortress in all peru ,
and it was here that the pizarros launched their next attack ,
they fought their way through the narrow lanes of the town ,
then they attacked the fortress which towers above ,
the spaniards now sent their force of commandos up to try and seize the rocks above the fortress .
hernando pizarro led the assault up these steps while the incas rained down missiles , spurred on by manco , who rode the terraces above on a spanish horse ,
" suddenly , the indians hit us from every , side ,
" to hear the roar of their army ,
" it was as if the mountain was about to crash on top of us , "
for the first time , the spanish had been beaten in a pitched battle ,
" 0ne more day and we would have killed them all , " said tito cusi ,
" my father 's men laughed heartily at the spanish rout " and how we celebrated our victory , "
manco planned to make a new cuzco here in the sacred valley ,
he even built a great council chamber , carved with the royal pumas ,
" by such monuments , he hoped to be remembered always , " said guaman poma ,
but manco knew that spanish colonists were pouring into peru every , month ,
within a year , manco realised he would have to pull right out of spanish reach , to the jungles the far side of the andes ,
peru would be partitioned
it must have been a heartbreaking moment for the young inca ,
when manco had decided to retreat up the valley into the jungles of vilcabamba he made a speech to his loyal followers .
a moving speech , too , a little like bonnie prince charlie going over the sea to skye .
he asked them to remember his ancestors , the incas of the past , had been good rulers , had cared for the people and provided for them .
" don 't forget that , " he said .
" don 't let your children forget it . "
then he said these extraordinary words which are all the more striking now .
" i know , " he said , " that one day , in the future , " the time will come when they will force us to worship their gods .
" and when that day comes , " do what you have to do in front of them , but in private don 't forget our ceremonies " and our gods .
" and if they try to force you to destroy our shrines , " only reveal what you have to and keep the rest hidden in your hearts . "
so the inca empire was to be divided
manco 's court and his army began their long march over the andes , demolishing the road behind them as they went , nearly 13,000 feet .
good lord !
no wonder my hands are freezing cold !
but even now , the incas still dreamed that one day they might return ,
0n the far side of the mountains , manco hoped to organise a new resistance , as manco put it , " to free the land of our forefathers , "
manco destroyed the rope bridge here , the river was to be the boundary , between the two worlds ,
but no one crossed the pizarros ,
gonzalo pizarro now prepared to hunt manco down , manco 's line of retreat had led him to a remote jungle hideaway at vilcabamba , the lost city of the incas ,
with him , gonzalo took 300 of the toughest conquistadors , more than his brother had led to cajamarca ,
we set out to follow him ,
i 've now got fleas . you may wonder why i 'm scratching my hands .
i 've been bitten by the dreaded " puma wacachi " - which is the fly that makes even the puma cry !
- it 's got me all over . it 's true !
- puma wacachi !
me wacachi !
the first stage of our trek in pizarro 's footsteps took us across bleak uplands over the last of the high passes towards amazonia ,
manco had retired to the farthest corner of the inca world to create his new kingdom ,
( men enc0urage h0rses )
- is this the pass colpa ?
- yes , this is colpa pasa .
- the colpa pasa ?
- yes .
- what does that mean ?
- that 's the highest point on the trail .
i 'll catch you up in a minute .
the colpa pass , the high pass .
about 12,400 feet .
this is the last of the passes before the road goes down and down and down towards the headwaters of the amazon and down into amazonia itself .
when the inca resistance headed this way , they were saying goodbye to their old homeland .
according to guaman poma , manco had pushed new roads into the interior , and on the second day , we found them ,
- this looks like inca steps , yeah ?
- yes , it is inca steps .
they 're quite well preserved up here .
yeah .
pizarro now scented blood
" we cannot fail to get manco now , " he said , " dead or alive , "
but pizarro was too confident and he fell into manco 's trap ,
( speaks quechua )
don juvenal told us how the incas had rolled stones down on the spaniards ,
there are still piles of rocks up there ,
36 conquistadors were killed
gonzalo was forced to retreat and wait for reinforcements before he dared push on ,
and manco taunted him ,
" i am manco inca ,
" we have killed 2,000 spaniards and we will kill you too , and free our country , "
the following day , we came down through the clouds into sodden rainforests ,
in places , landslides had taken the path away ,
such conditions must have sapped the morale even of p izarro 's hardened conquistadors ,
we came in sight of manco 's lost city ,
- this is espiritu pampa ?
- espiritu pampa .
si .
there it is , the lost valley of the incas .
the site of their last city .
it 's so secluded , so hidden , you can understand why it was never discovered until the 20th century .
you can understand too why the last of the incas thought they might be safe here , hidden away from the rest of the world .
pizarro had had to fight his way this far , but when he got here , the city was empty ,
manco had disappeared into the jungle ,
this is la plaza principal , don juvenal ?
si , plaza principal .
( d0n juvenal speaks quechua )
today , manco 's city lies scattered over a square mile of forest , so choked with vegetation it takes time to make out the shapes of the buildings ,
it 's all on such a huge scale .
this is the terracing of the great plaza in the middle of the city on which stood the temple .
they brought all their most sacred relics here from cuzco - the mummies of the last of the dead incas , and above all the most sacred relic , the golden image that symbolised the rising sun in whose chest was a heart made of dough
they brought it all here to try to rebuild their world in the jungle .
gonzalo searched these forests for two months till sickness and starvation forced him to retreat ,
by his fingernails , manco had survived
in his fury pizarro took revenge ,
he ordered manco 's wife shot with arrows and floated her down the river in a basket to be found by the incas ,
manco was grief-stricken for he had loved her very , much ,
meanwhile , pizarro 's private empire began to fall apart ,
like all mafia families , the pizarros had made bitter enemies ,
in a scene from " the godfather , " francisco , the discoverer and conqueror of p eru , was murdered by the son of his first business partner ,
manco , meanwhile , had made his new capital at a place called vitcos ,
fantastic !
there 's the vilcabamba river .
the spanish described the place as being on a high mountain with wonderful views over the province of vilcabamba .
0n top , they say , was a substantial flat area where majestic and sumptuous buildings had been erected with great skill and art .
you can see their ruins even from this distance .
manco held court here for seven years ,
the spaniards were now fighting among themselves and he sheltered enemies of the pizarros ,
but there was a price on the inca 's head , and in the end they got him ,
this is all that remains of manco 's palace .
here 's the finely-sculpted lintels that the spaniards mentioned .
and here 's the plaza where it all happened .
manco was about to play a game of quoits with horseshoes with his spanish guests , a game he liked .
his son tito cusi tells the story .
" my father was about to throw , " he said , " when one of the spaniards stabbed him in the back .
" he tried to defend himself , but there were seven of them and he was unarmed .
" they stabbed him and stabbed him .
i wanted to defend him , " tito says , " but i was only nine years old .
" they turned on me and i was terrified and ran off into the bushes .
" though i was wounded in the leg , i escaped .
" but my father was killed . "
manco had been the one inca who offered hope of long-term resistance .
so the inca empire ended .
the political order was destroyed .
but things exist at different levels in history .
and empires are really just on the surface of history .
below them is a much deeper structure that lasts much longer - the long-lasting , tenacious , deep-rooted culture of the people of a region , shaped by their landscape and climate .
up here in the andes , the inca people survive and the beliefs survive , just as manco inca had said .
the people themselves did not forget .
nearly 500 years on , the people of the andes still revere the ancestral spirits of the incas ,
every june , they go up in their thousands onto the glaciers of the sacred mountains ,
just before dawn , at a breathless 16,000 feet , they worship the ice of qoyllur riti , the lord of the snow star ,
and afterwards , like their inca ancestors , the people greet the rising sun ,
and then they sing the lilting song they sang to atahualpa all those years ago ,
" when the last inca is dead , " said old francisco pizarro , " the people will weary , of resistance " and take our part , "
" in the beginning , " said the aztecs , " the white men came in one boat , "
nearly 500 years ago ,
spanish adventurers landed on a small island off the coast of mexico ,
it was the first contact between the civilisations of the old world and the new ,
the prelude to one of the greatest events in history ,
it 's a story of almost incredible endurance , heroism , greed and brutality .
and all the more poignant today as we see its long-term effects unfolding across the globe .
it 's known still in the americas as the conquest , the " conquista . "
and the larger-than-life men who achieved it are the conquerors , the " conquistadors . "
" most mighty prince , " wrote hernan cortes to the king of spain ,
" let me begin at the beginning , we sailed our ships to the land called yucatan , "
cortes was a poor boy from a small town , trained in law , not war , but he had dreams ,
a self-made man , he 'd financed his own expedition - 11 ships , 500 soldiers ,
like columbus , he didn ' t know what lay ahead
he thought the land they could see beyond cuba was just islands , through which they could sail to china ,
it was april 1519 ,
gracias !
it 's hard for us to imagine the shock of the new for people of the 16th century ,
for us , it would be like landing on another planet ,
to discover that the new world also had great civilisations , with law , writing and architecture , this was a revelation ,
" what rational beings live here ? " wrote cortes ,
" this is the best and richest land that ever there was , "
the awe-struck conquistadors christened one place " el gran cairo , "
cortes headed west to the tabasco river , the frontier of the mayan and the aztec-speaking worlds ,
still perhaps unsure of his next move , he landed in frontera ,
the key to any close encounter is language , but cortes couldn ' t talk to the aztecs ,
( speaks spanish )
he 'd already found a spanish sailor who spoke mayan ,
then , here in frontera , he had his lucky break ,
cortes was given a slave girl by a local chief her name was malinali , but here in mexico everyone calls her " malinche , "
malinche spoke mayan and nahuatl , the aztec language , through her , he could talk to them ,
( w0man speaks spanish )
( translatl0n ) malinche was treated well by the spanish .
especially by cortes .
some say she fell hopelessly in love with him .
- afrodisiaco , # si ?
- si .
yes , some say she was dazzled by the power of cortes .
and how she 's paid for itl " traitor , whore , goddess of death , "
for nearly 500 years , mexicans have argued about malinche and her relationship with cortes , but malinche was the one who would lead cortes to his destiny ,
cortes sails on up the coast , malinche at his side ,
he keeps asking about gold and everywhere they tell him of a mysterious empire in the interior ,
a land called mexico ,
he anchors at an island off the coast , " the isle of sacrifices , " , just off the modern port of vera cruz ,
and it was here that cortes had his first encounter with the aztecs ,
in his letters , you can still feel his sense of wonder ,
since then , the tale has become a myth , it 's even immortalised in the movies ,
0n easter saturday 1519 , a magnificent embassy arrived from the ruler of mexico ,
even more strange , they seemed to have been expecting cortes ,
dona marina , find out who honours us in this royal manner .
yes , my lord .
( they speak nahuatl )
malinche translates their nahuatl ,
tell the royal ambassador i am pleased to welcome him to my camp .
to his amazement , the aztecs offer him wonderful gifts of gold
though cortes was pretending to be the ambassador of a great king , he couldn 't respond in kind and as gifts to the aztecs , he scraped up a chair , some trinkets and a velvet cap which their ambassador accepted , though he looked at them as if they were excrement !
then came the crucial moment in the conversation .
" do you have more gold ? " says cortes .
" because we suffer from a disease of the heart that can only be cured by gold . "
" yes , we do , " said the ambassador .
there could hardly have been a more dangerous admission .
cortes now gave the aztecs a show of his power ,
he fired his guns , rode his horses down the shore ,
the aztecs were stunned they 'd never seen such things before ,
their ambassador had his artists paint them , as we would take photographs ,
" the strangers , " he said , " have sticks which spurt fire ,
" they ride deer , high as a house , which snort and foam , "
cortes was invited to make a camp , he built a base here at villa rica ,
you can see it all from here .
the little bay , the little headland where they built their fort .
tiny , isn 't it ? just a first enclave in the new world .
but it all started from here .
and perhaps it was only now that cortes dreamed up the plan to go to the city of the aztecs ,
could he somehow get them to bow to spain ?
those nights by the sea , the locals told him of what lay ahead
how the aztec empire was built on fear and tribute ,
a tribute not only of things , but of people , 0f human hearts ,
the name of the aztec ruler was montezuma ,
but montezuma was haunted by a prophecy , a legend of an exiled god who one day would return to reclaim his throne ,
so the aztec spies urgently looked for signs ,
the strangers ' white food was it food of the gods ?
their pale faces , could they be divine ?
it sounds incredible , and it probably sounded incredible to the spanish , but aztec gods weren 't like christian ones .
they were more like the gods of the ancient greeks , capricious , wilful , mercurial , cruel .
and the most enigmatic of them all was quetzalcoatl .
and according to the legend , when quetzalcoatl was expelled from mexico , he promised that one day he would return and regain his kingdom .
that he 'd come back across that sea out to the east , back here , with his chalky white face and his beard in the aztec year 1-reed .
by an amazing chance , 52 to 1 chance this was that year !
and for the aztecs , nothing happened by chance ,
cortes 's men are getting nervous now , they know a great empire lies inland , and they know cortes wants to go there ,
he acts fast , kills the ringleader , then , so no one can get away , he decides to pull his ships up on the beach and scupper them ,
it 's a gambler 's throw , isn 't it , destroying your own ships !
they won 't talk about going home any more .
typical piece of cortes .
he knows what he needs to know about the aztecs .
but to persuade his men into the interior , he needs to hitch them to his dreams .
to leave them , as he put it , with nothing to rely on but their own hands and the assurance that they must either conquer or die .
the hesitation was over , cortes heads inland with some native allies from the coast who were keen to throw off the aztec yoke ,
he took a back road towards montezuma 's capital , tenochtitlan , hoping along the way to find friends among montezuma 's enemies ,
the towns they came through are still here - coatapec , xico ,
" every place we passed through , " says the conquistador bernal diaz , " we saw altars for human sacrifice , by some , there were thousands of skulls , "
the christian in cortes was revolted
here in xico , he told the people they must give up their idols ,
speaking in nahuatl , the aztec language ,
malinche gave a potted history of christianity .
then she explained to the people the pope gave the king of spain authority over their lands in the name of god .
there 's a story that two chiefs who heard this were prepared to believe that there was one all-powerful god , but as for the idea that the pope had given their lands to somebody else , the pope must have been drunk !
the spaniards were still trying to make sense of confusing signs ,
the stench oo blood mingled with the scent of flowers ,
familiar european categories of life and death , nurture and feeding , were upside - down ,
to quench their thirst , the spaniards were given juice bled from the fleshy white heart of the mage cactus ,
wow ! it 's absolutely beautiful .
0nly to learn this was the drink given to sacrificial victims to dull the senses of those who were about to die ,
" every , day , " says bernal diaz , " we were told they 'd kill us " and eat our flesh with chillies , " and the warm drink made from the cacao bean ,
" was prepared for the eagle warriors who feasted on the flesh of their enemies , "
whilst human sacrifice is long gone , chocolate is still drunk here at religious feasts ,
( w0man speaks nahuatl )
that 's " buenas tardes " ?
how do you say " gracias " ?
( she translates t0 nahuatl )
amazing !
and with the language , hints of aztec attitudes to love and sex ,
for all their obsession with death , the aztecs still loved life ,
( in nahuatl ) we 'd better not ... ( he repeats her w0rds )
i can 't tell you what that means !
cortes pushed on , and now we had to follow him on foot ,
" ahead of us , " says cortes , " we saw a great range oo beautiful mountains , " the peaks so white we think they must be covered with snow , "
with him , cortes had 300 conquistadors , 40 of them crossbowmen , 20 musketeers ,
there were several hundred indians , and cuban servants , and , of course , his precious horses - 15 of them ,
after a summer on the caribbean coast , the spaniards were in for a shock ,
0ne of the conquistadors , bernal diaz , said when they came into the mountains , it rained and rained .
the path turned into torrents .
all they had was their cotton armour for the tropics .
they were unprepared for the change of temperature , going up 11,000 feet .
soaking wet and freezing cold , some of their indian servants died .
so far as we know , cortes had no military , training , but he never lost the respect of those who marched with him ,
the thing you have to remember about the conquistadors is that , putting themselves through this , they were all volunteers .
they were in it not for religion but a share of the profits .
they were free men .
they acknowledged their leader 's authority but he had to pay attention to and respect them .
and they called each other " compadre . "
comrade .
they 're all in it together .
- is that the path up here ?
- eh ?
- that 's the path , is it ?
- yes .
that little path up to the top ,
cortes called it " nombre de dios " - " the name of god . "
( rain dr0wns 0ut w0rds ) 13,000 feet !
can 't see ...
~ muchas gracias !
those nights , the native women he 'd brought from the coast made them tortillas ,
some compensation ,
we have tents tonight and we are certainly going to be soaking , cold and miserable , just as hernan cortes and his men were , as bernal diaz tells the story .
those clouds are not going to lift .
as they marched deeper inland , they heard more about what lay ahead
" the locals said that to capture mexico would be impossible , " says bernal diaz , " and we would all die , " but the more they told us that , the more we longed to try , our fortune , "
after the mountains , though , things got no better ,
through autumn hailstorms , they trekked across a desolate plain of salt lakes with no food or water ,
cortes was heading for the fertile land of tlaxcala ,
tlaxcala was an independent city state ,
they hated the aztecs ,
cortes was hoping they 'd shelter him , but his luck was out ,
they attacked him in a savage battle , 0n the battlefield , they still plough up the debris ,
- buenos dias .
- buenos dias .
estoy buscando la ruta de hernan cortes .
# la batalla ?
# es aqui ?
ah !
~ si , si , si !
looks like glass , but this is obsidian .
see the sharp edge ?
they had a row of these things set into the wood of the clubs that they used .
nasty wound , but nothing like spanish steel .
" there were 149,000 of them , " cortes wrote to the king , in julius caesar mode ,
it was touch and go , he hung on grimly on this little hill for two weeks ,
then , with their own losses mounting to the spanish guns , the tlaxcalans offered him a deal ,
they welcomed him to their town and laid on a fiesta , even offered their daughters in marriage ,
the tlaxcalans had realised that these strangers with their guns could help free them from the aztecs ,
ever since , they 've been accused by other mexicans oo betraying their country , but of course , that 's not how they see it ,
( man speaks in spanish )
( translatl0n ) xicotencatl , the elder , reaches for hernan cortes who returns the embrace , but doesn 't let go of his sword .
the old xicotencatl knew the future of his people was at stake .
he believed this alliance would ensure that tlaxcalans would not disappear from the map , would not disappear from history .
the alliance of the tlaxcalans is the turning point of the whole story , the turning point in the history of the new world .
with them , cortes found allies who hated the aztecs and would fight them to the death .
allies who would give him support , provisions and manpower .
the possibility of conquering mexico was now on .
so cortes marched on , with several thousand tlaxcalan warriors behind him ,
to the greatest pilgrimage city in the americas , cholula , under the volcano popocatepetl ,
these were friends of the aztec ruler montezuma , and the tlaxcalans warned cortes to expect trouble ,
as the spanish moved through the town , they saw roadblocks in the side streets .
piles of stones heaped on the rooftops , women and children evacuated .
then malinche heard a story that a plot was being hatched to ambush cortes .
he decided on a pre-emptive strike .
he summoned the 100 lords of cholula to meet him in the temple of quetzalcoatl - it 's now the church of san gabriel - and there malinche told them in nahuatl that they 'd committed treason and they 'd die .
the doors were closed .
the spaniards killed them all .
and they killed 3,000 more cholulans assembled outside .
then their tlaxcalan allies sacked the town .
" and so death came to cholula , " says the aztec account ,
" when we got the news , we were seized with fear ,
" it was as if the earth itself were shaking , "
" my heart burns as if it ' s been washed in chillies , " said montezuma ,
from cholula , cortes continued up the old track through the forests of p opocatepetl ,
it was erupting then , as it is now ,
into the valley of mexico ,
in the distant haze , they began to make out a vast blue lake , and then , at last , far away , approached on immense causeways , was the city of cortes ' dreams ,
" it seemed like an enchanted vision , " wrote one of his men ,
" indeed , some of our soldiers asked whether it was not all a dream ,
" it was so wonderful " that i do not know how to describe this first glimpse " of things never heard of seen or dreamed oo before ,
" the city had traders and warriors , priests and lawyers , " musicians , jugglers , courtesans and scribes ,
" it was the most beautiful thing in the world , " wrote cortes ,
believe it or not , that 's where the causeway came in in the 16th century !
this is where the lake ended and the city began .
this is where cortes walked that november 1519 .
the aztec city started here .
to find the place where cortes and montezuma met , you have to go right into the commercial heart of modern mexico city ,
the site today is inside the hospital of jesus ,
to get there , you have to go through accident and emergencyl
the aztecs led the spanish into a great courtyard framed by a beautiful building that was on this spot .
the tale of that momentous meeting is told by the aztec eye-witnesses ,
this is where the two worlds met .
it 's where montezuma addressed cortes .
" 0h , my lord , " he said ,
" you are fatigued , you are weary after your long journey .
" at last you have come down to earth .
" you have come to your city of mexico which i have guarded for you for a little while .
" they said you would return , and now you have done so .
" but first , go to your palace and rest .
" and go in peace . "
mysterious words , but what do they mean ?
was this the language of aztec diplomacy ?
0r montezuma 's acceptance of destiny ?
no one knows ,
but in the aztec calendar , that day , the 8th of november , was 1-wind , the day of quetzalcoatl , a day of robbery violation and deceit ,
and the aztecs knew that nothing ever happened by chance ,
" it was as if we 'd all eaten stupefying mushrooms , " say the aztec witnesses ,
" we kept our children off the streets and the city went to sleep
" in a fearful slumber , "
the city woke as it always had
in the streets of the modern world , we can only dimly imagine its splendour ,
the flutes and conch shells greeting the dawn , the bustle of merchants , the thousands oo blooms carried each day to markets drenched in the scents of the americas ,
the spaniards were open-mouthed at the sights , the gleaming stucco of the palaces and pyramids ,
they wandered the courtyards , gawped at strange gods ,
but on the wind , with the scent of flowers , they caught the ever-present smell of death ,
and in their hearts , they feared that cortes the gambler had led them into the jaws of hell ,
montezuma , though , was still unsure who cortes was , and who his master was , the great king charles across the sea ,
so now montezuma proudly shows cortes the pyramid of the war god on whose summit thousands of captives had had their hearts cut out , perhaps the gods would recognise each other ?
trying hard to appear calm , the spaniards entered the chamber ,
the first thing the spanish noticed when they came inside was the disgusting smell .
as their eyes got used to the darkness , they saw the eyes of the aztec gods staring at them , gleaming with precious stones .
the war god , huitzilopochtli , was sitting down with a golden bow and arrow .
in front of him was a brazier full of human hearts , still warm .
all around , the walls were encrusted with dried blood .
cortes then said this to montezuma -
" i don 't understand how a prince as great as you " and a man as intelligent as you , could think that these are gods .
" they are bad things called devils " and i 'd like your permission to put a cross and a picture of the virgin mary in here . "
montezuma took offence at that .
" if i thought you were going to be so insulting to our gods , " i would never have brought you to see them .
" we hold these things to be good .
" they bring us health , harvest , rain and water " and we must sacrifice to them .
" so please don 't mention this again . "
it was quite a gulf
for the christians , god gave his blood to redeem mankind
for the aztecs , mankind must give its blood to redeem the gods ,
a week passed cortes had to act ,
he raises the stakes with an unbelievable gamble ,
at gunpoint he arrests montezuma ,
" what we want you to do is to come over to the palace where we 're lodging .
" quietly and with no fuss .
if you raise the alarm , we will kill you . "
montezuma is amazed .
nothing he learned in the palace of nobles prepared him for this .
" my person cannot be taken prisoner , " he says to cortes .
" even if i were to like it , my people would never accept it . "
the argument goes on for four hours , montezuma in tears at one point .
all the while , cortes 's captains are pacing up and down , getting more and more nervous .
0ne of them says , " either he comes with us now or we kill him now . "
and when malinche translates that , montezuma caves in .
montezuma was now in cortes ' power , maybe under his spell ,
he continued to issue orders as if things were normal , but he 'd lost the trust of his people ,
the tale has been told many times ,
how the angry , mob besieged the spanish , how cortes bullied poor broken montezuma to plead with them ,
but montezuma 's aura had drained away and his people killed him ,
the spaniards were trapped inside the city , food and water cut off ,
his dream slipping from his grasp , cortes was forced to give the order to escape ,
you have to remember the city was on an island completely surrounded by water , linked to the mainland only by three great causeways .
all the bridges had been broken by the aztecs .
so in those final few hours , the spaniards built a portable wooden bridge out of the ceiling beams of where they were staying .
they would leave at midnight .
the night was clear , with a gentle rain ,
the spaniards marched in silence , hugging their gold
half-way into the lake , they were spotted
the alarm was raised and the city woke ,
cortes was trapped the aztec witnesses name the place , today it 's by the little post office on the tacuba road
three quarters of the spaniards were left behind - 800 men - killed , drowned or captured .
the captives could expect only one fate at the hands of the enraged aztecs .
they were taken back into the city to the great pyramid .
there their hearts were cut out and offered to huitzilopochtli , the god of war .
0n the far shore , cortes gathered the survivors by a huge ceiba tree , it 's still there ,
malinche , they say , showed no emotion ,
but cortes , for once , couldn ' t control his feelings ,
they said there were tears in cortes ' eyes that night , " the night of tears . "
but of all his comrades who died , he asked after only one -
martin lopez , the shipbuilder .
when cortes heard that lopez had survived , although badly wounded , he said , " vamos .
que nada nos falta . "
" 0k , let 's go . for we lack nothing . "
" and when the spaniards had thus gone , " say the aztecs ,
" we thought they had gone for ever and would never return , "
but across the mountains , the tlaxcalans stood by cortes ,
and what he does now is one of the most amazing things in history ,
in the middle of the land , he builds a fleet ,
that 's why he needed martin lopez ,
they 're going to build 13 brigantines .
all of them are more than 40 feet long .
then they 'll take them to bits and carry them to mexico city !
what does the maestro think about this ?
( translatl0n ) they disassembled the fleet as there are no navigable rivers round here .
for mexicans , cortes was a very cruel man .
but from a buccaneering point of view , he was great !
cortes would not let go of his dream ,
and now , inexorably , the net began to tighten around the aztecs ,
cortes transports his prefabricated fleet , carried in pieces by a train of 8,000 tlaxcalan porters ,
across the mountains and back to the lake ,
0n the lake shore , he waited , reinforced now by thousands of hative allies ,
it was may 1521 ,
cortes ' moment of destiny had arrived
it was to be nothing less than a war of the worlds ,
cortes ' plan was to lay siege to the city and cut off its food and water supplies , then , supported by his ships , he would attack it along the causeways , whose line is still marked today by the main routes into the city ,
it was a new kind of warfare for the mexicans , involving the ordinary population , women and children , starving them .
this wasn 't part of war in ancient mexico , but cortes was a modern man .
it was total war , the siege lasted for 80 days ,
a quarter of a million people were reduced to eating lizards and grass ,
devastated by european diseases , the aztecs under their new king , cuauhtemoc , still refused to negotiate and the spanish had to win the city street by street ,
in the last battle , the aztecs were squashed into the warren of streets round the great pyramid in the north , in tlatelolco ,
i 'm looking for the ancient barrios of mexico city , not the modern ones .
i want to go to the area of tepito .
- tepito ?
- yeah . do you know it ?
yes , but it 's a little dangerous .
you don 't care ?
- well ...
you know it ?
- yeah .
- yacacoco ?
- no .
- lacolchoko ?
amashak ?
- no , i don 't know anything about it .
- do you have a map ?
- yes .
show me .
maybe i can help ...
jesus christ .
what kind of map is that ?
- it 's from 1772 !
- you have a rum deal , man !
mexico city 's got a bit bigger since then !
0k .
it seems crazy , but this map , drawn in 1772 ,
mexico city is still inside what was the old island .
you can still see the network of canals and the main roads of the aztec city are still there .
to the end , the mexicans viewed the spaniards as contemptible people who killed brave warriors at a distance with guns ,
in the aztec calendar , the final day was 3-serpent , the beginning of the time of lamentation and remembrance ,
the day human beings were reminded of their place in the remorseless cycle of time ,
this is where the war ended , the exact spot .
this little church was built on the place where cuauhtemoc surrendered .
i find the aztec version of this story as powerful and moving as homer 's " iliad , " the tale of troy .
the aztecs accept their fate without a trace of self-pity .
it 's as if , in their vision of time and destiny , the cycle of history , the bundle of years , had just been loaded against them .
the aztec lamentations have been handed down to us ,
" broken spears line the streets ,
" we have torn our hair in grief
" 0ur houses are roofless now , " our walls red with blood
" 0ur inheritance , our city , is lost ,
" the shields of our warriors were its defence " but they could not save it ,
" 0ur heritage is gone , "
a year or two after the conquest , while a new mexico was rising on the ruins of the old ,
cortes founded a hospital for the good of his soul on the spot where montezuma had welcomed him ,
by then , the king of spain had showered him with honours ,
the poor boy from medellin had become the most famous man in christendom ,
his talents served him well .
the gambler who gambled everything and won .
but maybe in the end it was a hollow victory .
for in achieving his dream , he had to ruin it .
it 's given to few people in history single-handedly to destroy a civilisation .
( sl0w drumbeat )
trujillo , spain .
in the early 16th century two boys grew up here , dreaming of gold and conquest ,
but when they left spain for the new world , they became deadly enemies in one of the epic dramas of history the search for el dorado ,
( train 's klax0n bl0ws )
this is the old route from the pacific up to quito in ecuador , in the 1530s and ' 40s , it was travelled by adventurers and conquistadors , all hoping for riches beyond their dreams ,
even at the time , there were those among the spanish conquerors who realised the immense historical significance of the fall of the new world .
" these are the greatest events , " wrote one of them , " since the beginning of the world . "
and the most cataclysmic of them took place in just a few years , 1520s , the fall of the aztecs , and then the fall of peru in the 1530s .
and then the story shifts here to ecuador , as thousands of europeans flood into the continent , seeking new lands of gold .
among them was a spanish captain called francisco 0rellana ,
a veteran of the inca wars , 0rellana was to be the hero of one of the most amazing journeys of exploration ,
early in 1541 , he came here to quito ,
the old northern capital of the incas , quito was now a spanish frontier town , 0rellana had come to find his cousin , the new governor gonzalo pizarro ,
handsome and cruel , gonzalo was in his early 30s now , the greatest warrior in the new world
but gonzalo was a man whose greed had not been satisfied even by the gold of the incas ,
0nly four years after the fall of p eru , pizarro was dreaming of hew conquests ,
from the rooftops of his palace in quito , he could see the andes rising to the east ,
early in 1541 , a rumour began to sweep the city that beyond the mountains there lay a land richer than mexico or even peru ,
a land of gold
the ruler of this land was said to be so rich that he covered himself in gold dust every , day and washed it off each evening ,
he was the golden man of el dorado ,
" i was fascinated , " said p izarro ,
" and i determined to discover that land and to conquer it , "
and we set out to follow him ,
we took an expedition doctor with us , john colley ,
above 10,000 feet , you get altitude sickness potentially , so where are we at now ?
yeah , we 're coming up to 12,000 feet here .
all through these campaigns , they had to operate at high altitude .
they developed this kind of cotton , thick , quilted cotton armour to fight in the tropics .
but , of course , you 're dead on the equator here , but you come to this altitude and you 're in serious trouble .
beyond the peaks , they entered a drenched green world , with streams and waterfalls , which eventually become the amazon ,
they might as well have been wanderers on the surface of an alien planet ,
pizarro 's route has never been traced on the ground
we know that for the first few months , he explored in a vast circle eastwards , but when his cousin 0rellana joined him , they set off from their camp near baeza northwards to the river coca ,
( man whistles )
( man calls 0ut ) - 0k ?
- yeah .
0h , jesus christ .
( gr0ans )
how many people did pizarro bring down here ?
it 's quite slippery here .
be careful .
( whistling )
are the horses with us ?
- ( man calls 0ut )
- yeah , good .
- how many people did he have with him ?
- 220 conquistadors .
4,000 native bearers .
200 horses , hundreds of hunting dogs .
hundreds of llamas to carry gear .
incredible .
to pizarro 's alarm , his vast army of native bearers was rapidly wasting away ,
the spanish had 4,000 native bearers with them from the highlands , but they all died by the time they reached the plains .
the history books say they were highland people who came down here and couldn 't cope , but why should 4,000 have died , do you think ?
was it malaria ?
not malaria .
that was something the spanish brought over with them .
0f course , there were all these other infectious diseases like measles and smallpox and so forth .
but these big waves of epidemics would have been through already , before this expedition set off , so i wonder if there was something else .
we should ask delphine .
he 's the expert .
starvation , i think .
delphine .
( speaks spanish ) 0ur guide delphine was a man who knows how to survive in the forest ,
( b0th speak spanish )
( translat0r ) i don 't think it 's possible to find that much food for that many people , because you can 't always rely on the jungle to provide you with food or fruit .
i think it would be impossible to feed them .
starvation .
you can imagine trying to find food in this area for that huge number of people .
so the 4,000 indians basically were starved to death .
i presume they 'd be the bottom of the feeding chain as well .
and basically left to fend for themselves as things got really tough .
" the terrain was terrible , " said p izarro ,
" we had to hack our own path through ,
" and we were worn out already from the crossing of the andes , "
frustrated and angry pizarro took it out on his native guides , torturing them , burning them alive and feeding them to his dogs , not a man to argue with ,
food was a growing problem , even for the spaniards ,
" in the end , " says pizarro , " we were forced to eat the buds of a plant like a vine stalk , "
( speaks spanish )
0nly the little curly bud on the top .
( speaks spanish )
that was before they started eating their precious horses ,
at last we reached the first landmark described by the spanish ,
hidden behind the falls , legend says , was the gold of the inca atahualpa ,
( speaks spanish )
( translat0r ) those who are in touch with nature believe that the spirits exists here .
( spanish )
( translat0r ) yes , this is a door to the spiritual world .
the real story of what 's behind the falls , not that it 's gold as the spanish believed , but behind there is the entry to the world of the spirits .
isn 't it wonderful ?
everything the spanish understand literally that the indians actually mean metaphorically .
" and so we pushed on through thick forest , " pizarro says ,
" hacking with axes and machetes , "
" 0ften it was impossible to get our horses through , "
see what an effort it is just to hack a path through virgin forest .
you 're lucky if you do a mile or two each day .
can you imagine what this was like for hundreds of people and all their baggage and their animals trying to get their way through this ?
it just doesn 't bear thinking about .
at last , after six months in the jungle , they emerged from the andes foothills and saw this view , an immense flat horizon ,
even with their limited knowledge , they must have known this stretched all the way to the atlantic , but how far was that and what lay in between ?
( michael ) the big stones .
there 's a branch under there .
they marched on down the coca ,
" there were many days , " says pizarro ,
" when we were wading knee-deep , waist-deep or even worse , "
it 's deep .
and still no sign of el dorado ,
by now , seven months in , the army was demoralised many were too sick to move ,
though he hid it from his men , pizarro was desperate ,
0rellana now tried to persuade him to turn back , but pizarro wouldn ' t give up his quest ,
he ordered his men to build a boat to carry , the sick and wounded and the heavy gear ,
it took his starving troops a month to make , smelting their horseshoes to forge the nails ,
but there was an easier way , using renewable balsa wood , we made a traditional raft with hardwood nails and ropes oo bark ,
with this , we hoped to follow pizarro down the coca to the river napo ,
it just goes to show .
the spanish went to all that trouble about getting nails and you only need some hard wood and some soft wood and you can do it without metal .
we 'll see if it works .
( sh0uting )
it 's our brigantine .
i don 't think we 'll do the full 3,000 miles on that , though .
i don 't mind .
pizarro 's army set off again on the 9th of november , 1541 , 0f the beauties of the landscape around them , there 's no mention in his account ,
this is what you never read in the history books .
you never feel the sense of this immense forest , stretching for 2,000 or more miles .
this immense blue sky and this great river .
even with the boat , progress was painfully slow ,
they could still only go as fast as the army , trudging along the bank ,
( thunder )
they marched on for 43 days , christmas came ,
by now some of the spaniards were dying of starvation ,
their christmas was made even more miserable by the news that a vast uninhabited region lay ahead , where no food was to be found
it was pizarro 's nightmare ,
mutiny was in the air , and then 0rellana stepped forward
that christmas , in their camp here by the river , the whole expedition deeply depressed by the struggle of the last ten months ,
0rellana came up to pizarro and said , " look , give me the brigantine , give me the boat ,
" and a few canoes , some of the men and i 'll go downstream
" to try and find some food and i 'll come back in three or four days . "
pizarro looked at him and said , " whatever you think 's best . "
0rellana left next day with 57 men ,
but within days , so he said later , he realised the current was too strong and he couldn ' t go back ,
" so we chose what seemed to us the lesser of two evils , " 0rellana said ,
" trusting to god we 'd go on and follow the river
" and either die or see what marvels lay ahead "
what he didn ' t know was that ahead of him was the greatest river on earth ,
the first few days they passed through an empty landscape , chewing their boots to stay alive , so close to death , they were hallucinating ,
then , on monday evening , the 8th of january they heard drums , 0rellana landed and nervously went into the forest ,
they were the first europeans to walk in the interior of a mazonia , - do you think they might be asleep ?
- i don 't think there 's anybody home right now .
they 've got their boots right here .
but they 're obviously ...
it 's closed up .
( speaks spanish )
there 's nobody here .
well , they did run away when 0rellana first landed .
left their cooking pots and their food .
0rellana 's men were starving , so , of course , they stuffed themselves .
the indians were very nice about it when they came back .
the man 's name was tapui , nelson tapui ,
he farmed here with his family , pretty much cut off from the outside world
( speak spanish )
he spoke quechua , the inca language ,
( speaks quechuan )
0h , he 'll have to talk slower than that .
and language would be the key to 0rellana 's survival ,
( speaks quechuan )
he began to put words down in a notebook ,
what 's the name in quechuan ?
- lomo .
- lomo .
so yoca is lomo .
that 's very ...
" the captain made a point to get to understand the native languages , " says the diary ,
and he made his own primer to help him , so if you ask for good water to drink , to drink .
( speaks quechuan )
nelson sent his son up a tree to bring seed pods for us to eat ,
the native people here were called imara , they gave 0rellana food , too ,
they let the spaniards stay with them for a month to recover their health ,
saved them from death ,
( they speak quechuan )
can i open ?
0k .
i could get into these .
delicious .
- mmm .
- mmm .
at this moment , 0rellana was still thinking like a conquistador , he told his hosts that he was claiming them and their land for the king of spain ,
bye-bye .
but maybe a change was beginning to take place in his mind , for kind treatment of the indians , he said now , was the right way to follow ,
0ver the coming months , 0rellana would make contact with many different indian peoples ,
some , like nelson , would feed and shelter him ,
some would try , to kill him ,
the mum gives us a smile .
she thought we were aliens at first .
back upriver , pizarro was waiting for 0rellana to return , his men now dying around him ,
and as the days turned to weeks , he began to suspect that his loyal cousin might have betrayed him ,
0rellana 's encounter with the imara had offered hope of survival ,
now he and his men decided to get their story , straight ,
they appointed a scribe to put down on paper why they 'd deserted p izarro ,
and each and every , one of them put his name to it ,
" we 've travelled 200 leagues through savage jungle , " they said .
" we 've all seen it with our own eyes .
" we 've felt constant fear of losing our lives because of suffering and hunger .
" how much more danger and death would there be were we to turn back now ?
" therefore we all beg you , " they say to 0rellana , " not to ask us to do this .
" and we ask our scribe to write it down .
" and we are all willing to follow you by any other route to save our lives .
" but not to turn back . "
but was 0rellana being quite truthful ?
0r did he hope to claim the secret of el dorado for himself
we continued on his track , down the coca to its junction with the napo ,
not so long ago , this was just a mission station , now the town of francisco 0rellana is a wild west place which has boomed with the opening up of the forest to the new conquistadors , the loggers and the oil men ,
just looking round ourselves and seeing the open sewers and dogs running wild and the terrible overcrowding and you suddenly understand why it was that diseases evolved in cities , where there are huge concentrations of people , rather than in the far healthier lifestyle of the jungle .
and this is , i suppose , the second conquisto , isn 't it , you know .
first they came looking for gold and el dorado and now the forests are being plundered .
they 've had their rubber and now it 's the hardwoods and it 's black gold - oil .
- adios , amigo . - yeah , bye-bye .
when you get to manaus , remember , if you go swimming , don 't have a pee .
and so we said our goodbyes to dr colley , 0h , dear .
0ur next leg would take us down the napo , the conquistadors ' river of cinnamon ,
here 's to the river napo .
0rellana sailed on past other great rivers , the aguarico , the curaray , down into what is now peru ,
" we made good speed , " says the diary ,
" sometimes more than 20 leagues a day , for the river 's flow was swift and strong , "
0rellana was now on one of the main tributaries of the amazon , heading east through a vast fluid wilderness ,
from the air , it 's a bewildering maze ,
0ut here nature seems to have no bounds ,
0rellana and his men must have gazed on the scene , part in wonder , part in terror ,
a few days later , they came to a gigantic confluence , the napo and the maranon , the beginning of the amazon proper ,
and as 0rellana reached the maranon , far to the west , pizarro had finally given up hope of seeing him again and ordered his men to turn back ,
there 's a shift now in the tone of the expedition diary , kept by the priest , father carvajal ,
it may be hindsight , but he seems aware now that the journey was turning into an epic of exploration ,
" it seemed to us , by our continuing survival ,
" that our lord jesus was pleased with such a great venture into the unknown ,
" for such a feat of discovery , surely might not otherwise have taken place
" for many centuries into the future , "
ah .
muchas gracias .
- ( w0men sing ) - 0k .
- bienvenido a 0rellana .
- muchas gracias .
buenas noches .
it was here that 0rellana first heard strange stories of a fierce tribe of female warriors , like the amazons of greek myth ,
( rhythmic f0lk s0ng )
his contemporaries never believed him , but he always swore the tale was true ,
it 's a myth which crops up in many places and maybe it 's not just a myth ,
the spanish say that when they came down the amazon , there were all these tribes that were ruled by women and only when they wanted children did they go and raid and get the men and have sex with them and get pregnant
and then they 'd boot the men out .
are there still ...
can you still find women like this on the amazon ?
( w0man translates )
( translat0r ) ah , dominant .
yes , there are woman who are dominant .
0f course .
yes , there are women who have power over the men .
( w0man sings native folkballad )
no one knows for sure whether the amazons really existed
but they gave the river the name it still has today , rio amazonas , the river of the amazons ,
( w0man sings folkballad )
all the way through what is now peru , the local people treated these strangers from another world kindly ,
but did 0rellana ever see them as fully human like himself
i think he remained a conquistador ,
nonetheless , he was still carefully recording words from the river languages ,
( w0man speaks l0cal dialect )
" next to god , " says the diary " the captain 's understanding of the native languages
" was the deciding factor in saving us all from death , "
( they speak l0cal dialect )
0rellana 's diary , is the first description of the peoples of a mazonia ,
" this part of the river , " he says , " they were part of a great federation , the aparians , "
in the two centuries after the coming of the spanish , 90 % of the population here died from violence and disease ,
today the survivors are people living after a holocaust ,
it was a tragedy which went almost unrecorded
here in iquitos , father joaquin is trying to set the record straight , to recover the lost history , of a mazonia ,
( they speak spanish )
in the 16th century these were big towns , large and well-organised communities ,
so maybe what you see now is a distant reminder of what 0rellana saw ,
( speaks spanish )
( translat0r ) i had studied the case of 0rellana for a long time and i concluded that 0rellana met a huge diversity of peoples here .
we wondered what happened to all these people .
we reckon there were over six million in the whole of amazonia .
( michael ) the spaniards were amazed by the natural produce of the forest and the river , the huge quantities of fish of every , kind , parrots , turtles as large as leather shields ,
( spanish )
in his library father joaquin has a copy of the original diary ,
( speaks spanish )
this is the hand ...
this is the handwriting of carvajal .
( translat0r ) " this account was written by friar gaspar de carvajal , " a friar of the order of dominicans ,
" of the voyage of discovery down the great and famous river . "
the famous great river .
( reads in spanish )
" and i was an eyewitness to these amazing things , " says carvajal ,
" a man whom god chose to play a part in such a strange
" and hitherto never experienced voyage of discovery , "
this is the next stage of our amazonian journey , the natalia carolina .
it says , " heading for cubagua today , six o 'clock .
" por mi madre sin falta . " " 0n my mother without fail . "
well , it 's about half past six .
well ...
this is amazon time .
0rellana stayed with the aparians for two months to build a second , bigger boat , a 30-footer ,
a boat strong enough for the sea ,
when he left in late april , he still had 2,000 miles of river to go ,
( w0man sings )
the dream of el dorado is distant now , and for me the voyage had begun to gather like static the history , of the intervening 500 years , the later conquistadors , like the demented aguirre , the so-called wrath of god
the missionaries , the prospectors and the debt raiders , they all came this way ,
and the clamour of history , rose like the sound of the forest in the night ,
and in the ghostly shapes we passed , it was easy to imagine the spaniards on their fragile craft ,
" what hardships , what suffering and what extraordinary , dangers we passed through , "
wrote friar carvajal , he lost an eye in one attack ,
" the people are more hostile now , "
and as for 0rellana , too kind-hearted a soul by far , some said he had learned to read the signs and to negotiate fear , most of all , perhaps , in himself
they now began to see canoes everywhere , they were approaching even richer lands ,
by the middle point of the river , they came past huge settlements , extending for many miles , without any gaps between the clusters of houses .
these were large , well-organised communities , with thousands of people , real high cultures .
they were now inside the territory , of a huge native federation , which stretched for hundreds of miles along the river , the 0magua , they passed so many towns that they could only remember them by giving jokey tags to people and places ,
main street , chinatown , viciousville and stupidville ,
so 0rellana 's diary , offers a new history , for amazonia , an elaborate series of ancient kingdoms , networks and alliances , which had developed over thousands of years , united by the river itself
after three days ' sailing , we reached the brazilian frontier ,
0rellana had to pass a border here , too - the frontier of the machiparo state ,
he had to fight his way through ,
it 's so relaxed today i couldn ' t find anyone to stamp my passport ,
immigration ?
immigration ?
( speaks spanish )
thanks .
gracias .
but the spectre of gonzalo pizarro still haunted 0rellana and his men ,
0rellana never forgot the potential cost of crossing gonzalo pizarro , a member of the most powerful family in the americas .
desertion , after all , was punishable by death .
and their boyhood friendship would count for very little .
so he and his men , all through the journey , covered themselves .
this is the second main document they drew up , formally petitioning 0rellana to be their leader , and every single member of the expedition has signed it , with loud protestations of loyalty to the governor , gonzalo pizarro .
but , at this moment , they had no idea whether pizarro was alive or dead .
pizarro , though , was a man who could face death without flinching ,
the tale of his hellish return has inspired movies , plays and books ever since ,
" for suffering , famine and misery " wrote one conquistador ,
" this was the worst journey ever in the indies , "
attacked all the way , pizarro didn ' t know where he was or what direction to take to reach peru , or any place christians might be ,
" we ate all our dogs and horses , " he wrote ,
" and we got back with only our swords and the rotten rags we stood up in , "
plzarro 's only thought now was revenge against his boyhood chum , the worst liar that ever there was ,
and 0rellana sailed on , as amazing spectacles of nature came one after the other ,
in early june , 0rellana arrived at the site of manaus , where the river stretches to the horizon , as wide as an inland sea ,
manaus was built in the centre of the rainforest , founded as a jesuit mission in the 18th century when the opening up of a mazonia really started
where the opera house and the grand mansions now stand , 0rellana saw huge settlements of hative people lining the waterfront ,
there are few places where you feel more strongly the all-consuming march of history ,
looking centuries into the future , 0rellana 's diary , says this -
" it was our desire that , if possible , the land and its barbaric people
" should not have negative feelings about our first encounter ,
" so that one day the country , might be tamed for pacification
" and reduced to obedience to our christian civilisation , "
the western conception of a city was a new innovation in the americas which came with the conquest .
they require a new way of life , new laws and customs and institutions to make a new identity , to reshape humanity , if you like .
they also suck in the products of the natural world , of the forest and the river , and consume them .
and in that , cities like this , manaus , represent a break in that continuum of thousands of years of life here in the americas .
there may have been five million indigenous people here , when 0rellana came through .
the present population of the natives of amazonia is 250,000 , less than a quarter of this city .
that 's the scale of the revolution .
at last , after eight months on the river and against all the odds , in august , 1542 , 0rellana reached the mouth of the amazon ,
they had sailed 2,500 miles down the greatest river on earth , they had seen unknown empires and encountered lost worlds ,
" it had been less of a journey , " said one of them , " more of a miracle , "
but even as their makeshift boats carried the 47 survivors to safety in the caribbean , back in quito , gonzalo pizarro was petitioning the king for revenge ,
( speaks spanish )
pizarro accused 0rellana of treason , a crime punishable by death ,
" captain 0rellana paid no heed to the duty that he owed your majesty ,
" and to the wellbeing of the army and the whole expedition .
" instead of bringing us back food , he displayed to us all the greatest cruelty
" that ever faithless men have shown .
" and he 's the worst traitor that ever lived . "
in his defence , 0rellana used the documents that they 'd drawn up on the river .
" pizarro wasn 't telling the truth .
what happened was his responsibility .
" the fact was we couldn 't get back to him .
" and , in the end , it was god 's will that we went on to make such amazing discoveries . "
pizarro never came home ,
he died fighting the crown for his family 's empire in peru ,
his house is still there , the garden where he and gonzalo crossed toy swords as boys ,
he married a wealthy young wife , anna , but he couldn ' t settle back in spain ,
he petitioned the king to send him back to his river , with the title of governor of the amazon ,
but his luck ran out , the expedition was a disaster ,
this is how anna remembered 0rellana 's death .
" my husband couldn 't find the main channel of the river
" and , for 11 months , we wandered around like lost people .
" and in that time , we suffered such hardships ,
" because of hunger , disease and incessant rainfall .
" we ate all the horses and the dogs
" and , in the end , almost all the expedition died .
" my husband among them . "
hello , i would like you to touch wood
do you know this expression ?
the easiest way to understand it is referring to the heatwave of 2003 we have well known , may be more in the countryside with agricultural production .
in 2003 this is my place that 's what grew and i did not harvested .
when we see this as a farmer one has the right to wonder about the future .
that 's why i brought you wood that i will distribute .
touching wood , i think it 's good
it makes you feel calm .
it 's nice and it smells good .
here 's a piece for each of you , if you want to distribute .
it 's cherry and plum .
there are probably few in paris .
pass it to the others and we will do a simple experiment
to show that these branches are the future of agriculture .
it seems crazy !
we hear of agriculture at the edge of the drama
and it is true that agriculture is on the brink and we are on the brink .
i 'll show you the same experience as i had .
you take the branch and you do like that .
it can be shaped like a circle very easily .
and what i experienced in 2003 , in 2004 i did not experienced .
because the flexibility of these small branches that are produced every year growing every day the forest makes them .
the best model for agriculture is the forest because the forest does not need humans .
agriculture has derived to the assistantship , to technology .
farmers who don 't understand ground anymore .
farmers have forgotten that the best model and pragmatism of life encourage us to watch the living .
from the living , the forest is the best example .
no human intervention no watering , no fertilizers , pesticides , fungicides it works alone .
when i discovered the flexibility of the small branch i wondered :
why the branches of large diameter break easily ?
whereas we can shape small branches as a circle that represent the virtuous circle of trees which produces branches in huge quantities .
i found on the internet an explanation of the forest and its soil .
we learn that leaves are attached to small branches it is not because they are fed up that they fall .
they restore 50 to 60 % of their content to the branches .
in this branch you are holding ,
there all the nutrients which allow buds in a few months to make new branches which contain branches for the following year .
trees restart their growth only with the content of the small branches .
on large diameter branches there are no such nutrients .
as you read this , you think you can already act individually and talk about it to friends and we will cut branches .
the more we are numerous and the more is the occasion to meet , to live well then we cut the branches , we gather them we make pile and grind it in a machine .
this is a technical operation , but not insurmountable .
in africa , we do it with a machete .
we spread it on the ground a layer of 3 to 5 cm , no more .
we realize that this is not prohibitive for a garden with this material which is hidden here .
i will open it later .
when it is placed on the ground in winter , spring we incorporate it .
you mean there is something about seasons ?
yes , indeed .
at the arrival of winter , the branches store nutrients .
it 's going nowhere but in the branches , only at that time .
in the spring , those elements are diffused again .
so we proceed to what is called incorporation .
after a few weeks the agricultural soil that was here mainly stones has become this .
60 to 90 days after application of a 3 cm thick layer .
here is the top and there underneath .
we see mycelium , the real mushroom .
the mycelium is our collaborator to do what nature does only with mushrooms food chain with the lignin molecule .
the lignin molecule is very energetic and here comes a complex food chain of the soil .
the cultivated agricultural land becomes a forest soil .
it is a copy / paste of forest soil / agricultural land .
it works surprisingly for this stony soil with the rcw to grow wheat
with yields almost higher than normal .
the surprise is enormous , because the trees grow too as well as vegetables .
there you are on limestone plateaus of quercy i invite you to my place .
i brought you bracnches from my place , but here it is .
zucchini grow in full sun .
no watering , just seedlings .
i plant the seeds in the ground and wait for it to grow .
this year , with 12 zucchinis , i picked up 190 kilos .
no watering , no phytosanitary treatment , no weed control .
it might looks like the garden of eden we put the seeds in the ground and harvest .
these are my productions .
unfeasible on the plateau .
when you say you are going to grow carrots on limestone plateaus everyone says it , agronomists , experts there are 30 to 40 % of stones ,
30 cm of soil , impossible .
no water , no fertilizer , no treatment .
yields are 160 to 170 % .
the amount of dry matter is 30 % extra .
which means that the plants have less water and are tastier they overcook less easily and preservation is much longer .
no evidence of disease , plague , aphids or pests
it seems magical .
no human intervention .
it is like facing the forest without human intervention .
is it still agriculture ?
is this a new concept ?
even in mali , burkina faso , togo , gestures are the same , the results are the same .
when small branches are grinded , we put a thin layer on the floor we see the same phenomenon .
mushrooms of a certain family will take nutrients triggers a food chain which induces life returning in soil .
i have not mentioned the name , but it is rcw
w for wood
r for ramial , branches you have in your hand a very special part of the tree bearing leaves , where photosynthesis happens .
energy from the sun , transformed by the leaves is stored in the branches
this concept bothers agronomy , the farming profession must be reinvented .
you imagine a farm with 20 to 30 % of forest area or wood .
it can occur without soil conditioner with 50 % less water at least and a yield of 160 to 170 % .
you do it every 4-5 years .
it is about sustainability
this concept affects many people but research has difficulties to take it in account .
this package , for those who want , we can share it because it works in the garden , in a flower pot , with a lemon tree or a plant that you like .
you put a layer of 3 to 5 cm thick and it works !
you will have the most beautiful fruits less watering needs and besides it 's beautiful , it smells good .
for those that want to smell and take some there is a characteristic smell of forest .
i invite you to share this meal with the ground .
note :
c of rcw stands for chipped
subtitle and translation :
this is a rocket stove .
rocket stoves generally create much more efficient combustion and are better able to store heat than conventionnal stoves .
and so , i decided i wanted to build this stove rather than use the previous one that i had because i wanted to be putting less pollution into the atmosphere but also this stove , you actually feed wood into the top
which means that you can put long pieces of wood , directly into the stove and it doesn 't have to be cut to be able to burn .
so , i can put the wood in here and the burning actually happens down in the bottom of this area and then , the flue gas will travel through the stove there is a riser up inside the barrel itself
that creates a draft so that you can actually have the wood feeding in through the top and then the flue gas will travel up , hit the top of the barel on the inside and then there is an opening on the outside .
on the inside of the barrel but on the outside of the part that comes up in the middle .
all the flue gas will travel down around the outside of the barrel and out through the back and up , out of the chimney .
all this cob here that surrounds the stove is designed to capture the heat from the combustion so that it 's not just all going straight up the chimney .
with a conventionnal stove the heat tends to travel out of the building very quickly .
this allows for more of the heat to be stored in the building and then slowly the heat is released over time out of the cob .
so , this is the sky house rocket stove
it is a sort of a wall in between our dinning room and our living room .
basically , you got the intake here the barrel is here and you can see there is a very large amount of cob surrounding most of the barrel here .
this entire wall is actually a cob wall .
basically we got a lot more mass to store heat in we 've got a little bit of area where the barrel is exposed so that is gonna through heat in the room quickly when you first light the stove but for the most part we are looking at the stove
to store heat for a long time and we burn the fire here in the morning , we can run it for a few hours and all of this cob will still be warm into the evening .
so , here we are on the other side of the wall , in the dining room .
here is the other side of the barrel encased in cob and then the flue of the rocket stove runs all the way through this bench and up that chimney .
one of the benefit of the rocket stove is that you can have a long horizontal run of your flue pipe and you can monitor a bench or under a bed or wherever you want to store that heat .
normally we have a table here so this one of the seat of the table , that is very popular when we are in winter cause this area gonna stay warm pretty much all day until the evening if we fire the rocket stove that day .
there is about 4 to 6 inches of cob on top of the flue here on the bench so they can take a few hours before it heats up .
i would say 2 or 3 hours but then it wil stay warm throughout the day .
the front of the rocket stove there is only about 2 inches between the flue and the front and that heats up a little faster sometimes it is almost a little too hot so that 4 inches is really great if it 's going
to be an area , where you are physically in contact with .
like this bench .
we oil the bench to waterproof it cause it is near the table .
the chimney runs up as cob all the way up into the second story and that , again stores thermal mass up into the bedrooms , upstairs as well .
subtitles :
welcome to basalt mountain located on the northern rim of the roaring fork valley in colorado .
the climate here is hot and dry in the summer and frigid in the winter .
to the point were only a small number of plant and animal species can survive here .
until now no one would have considered farming in this dry rocky nutrient poor soil .
but thanks to our current understanding of nature 's natural processes one man has built up a nutrient rich soil upon this dry undesirable clay forming the foundation for a thriving ecosystem
jerome osentowski is the man behind the ecosystem and the central rocky mountain permaculture institute .
nestled on the side of basalt mountain lye one acre of edible forest garden guilds and four passive and active solar greenhouses which have become a large part of jerome 's most recent permaculture endeavors
i came to colorado in 1969 and i spent about the first seven or eight , ten years as a ski instructor .
and gradually got interested in healthy foods
through having somewhat of a health crisis with hyperglycemia so i decided to look into wild foods and that lead me into growing my own gardens and using wild foods when it was available
jerome began gardening in the lowlands of the basalt area with the understand that it would be too difficult to grow near his home on basalt mountain due to the arid soils and difficulty in harnessing water but once i learned about permaculture
i found that it was totally possible to create these beautiful gardens using recycled materials , and building compost , sheet mulching , using perennial and annual vegetables
in combinations of designs
so , we started annual gardening here for ten years or so and then we gradually segued into perennial polycultures outside and now inside and we 've taught hundreds of people here through internship programs and through the different design courses and workshops here .
what 's nice about it is that they can come and eat the fruits see the combination of plants in our forest gardens and see how we build our greenhouse
but jerome 's success in permaculture hasn 't come without some major road blocks
in 2008 a devastating fire burned down one of his first tropical greenhouse 's ironically named pele [ after the hawaiian fire goddess ] to the ground .
the fire in pele was actually a blessing in disguise .
because we were able to take new technology and design a much bigger , better greenhouse .
so i worked with michael thomson my partner in ecosystems design to redesign the new greenhouse .
at the time that pele burned down jerome had been working with well know local architect michael thompson on advancing greenhouse design by introducing what jerome called " climate battery technology "
the destruction of pele gave the two the chance to put their latest research to the test and in the spirit on new beginnings the new greenhouse would be named phoenix after the mythological bird that burns itself and rises from the ashes to live through another cycle .
hi i 'm michael thompson ,
i 'm chief architect with ecosystems design in basalt colorado and partner with jerome osentowski .
the climate battery as we now call it , is a series of tubing in which air is taken in at the high point of the greenhouse , pumped through tubing , and exhausted at the south end of the greenhouse .
and then that air circulates over and over again picking up heat and then delivering it underground and storing it .
so at ecosystems design , we create designs for greenhouses and passive solar buildings and homes as well as outdoor landscaping perennials and annuals for organic agriculture in the rocky mountain region .
in addition to designing indoor and outdoor permaculture and edible landscapes
we create the buildings that allow that indoor growing , such as this one in steamboat springs .
this is a large thirty six by eighty foot greenhouse that will support sub-tropical and anything below that .
and here we have inside the greenhouse , all of these planting beds that we have created above ground and under ground we have these forced air heat storage systems
so all of these fans are delivering air through these vertical risers which then underground distribute the warm air through these horizontal manifolds through these perforated tubes that deliver the heat and the moisture from that air into the soil for use later in the cold nights .
so as a result we get these indoor environments that are very well insulated and heated against winter conditions such as this last year .
and when we have a condition like this where we have very cold weather and snow around the building inside what were experiencing is uhh ...
this is when we began the planting of this greenhouse last autumn , and this spring we had this much growth in there .
so we have flowers , we have other plants that support the insect populations for beneficial controls and for pollination , and we have all of the soil conditions and the climate conditions to grow tropical banana plants , and guavas and figs and papaya etcetera .
and these greenhouses also function very well as early propagation centers
where we can start the plants in february that will grow outdoors as annuals .
we also have climate control equipment like these curtains that draw across underneath the glazing at night when its very cold so we have an extra insulating layer for accomplishing that .
so we also do solar homes solar energy productive buildings .
in addition to designing greenhouses for private investors crmpi and growing spaces are building growing domes for local schools in colorado in order to raise awareness about the importance of a local food economy .
the institute has currently built a growing dome at yampa mountain high school in glenwood springs and the roaring fork high school in carbondale both facilities will be utilized as classrooms for sustainable agriculture curriculums and the food produced will be integrated into the school lunches. there you can find out more about our services and browse our design galleries .
for more information about the central rocky mountain permaculture institute and how you can contribute please visit crmpi.org there you 'll find detailed information about our growing dome projects via the community food initiative as well as workshop dates and internship availability .
and built the geodesic growing domes used at the local high schools and special thanks to john cruickshank for his role in the technological advancements of what is now called the climate battery
thanks for watching
water
water is
water is life .
bassin de retention d 'eau a tamera ( portugal )
avec sepp holzer et benrd muller
water is life .
water is the most important thing .
the whole world is 70 % water .
we , animals , everything-70 % water .
water is the key issue for the survival human kind on this planet .
nature has provided enough water everywhere on earth ;
but , a billion people do not have sufficient access to clean drinking water .
more and more regions lack the water to grow the food they need .
centralized systems of artificial water management cannot solve this problem .
we need de-centralized systems of natural water management .
we are in tamera peace research center in southern portugal , where a water retention landscape has been in development since summer 2007 .
bernd muller is responsible for tamera 's ecological research work .
in 2007 the community of tamera still had the question whether a site of this size threatened by desertification could provide food , water and energy for 300 people .
we visited sepp holzer and asked him this question and he brought us this gift the vision of a water landscape .
sepp holzer , an austrian mountain farmer , is a well-known specialist and visionary for permaculture and landscape healing .
water is always at the core of his work .
for me water is the most important capital .
wherever it 's possible , you should create retention spaces and collect the rain water and re-learn with the water how to maintain a balance .
this is the most important thing because once you 've created the right hydrological balance ,
70 % of the work is done .
ou help rich vegetation to develop , diversity ecause nature can reveal itself and develop in the right way .
traveling through the world i have not seen a single situation , nation or land in which the development of a water retention landscape would not give the first important healing impulses .
in many parts of the world , countries are not able to feed their population anymore . they have been unable to maintain their natural wildlife for a long time .
as a consultant in many countries
sepp holzer sees the consequence of deforestation , monoculture , overgrazing and industrial agriculture .
all these factors destroy the natural water balance .
the soil is drying out . water is being lost and the retention space , the natural water storage system of the earth , is becoming dry and the flora and fauna disappear .
in the end the land will turn into desert or burn ecause it 's so dry .
you can see these problems happening all over the world , bringing huge catastrophes .
and the heavy rains come anyway .
what happens then ?
the water rushes down the slopes because the dry soil does not absorb the water .
when the soil is hotter than the falling rain it rejects the water .
only when the soil is cooler , when the vegetation is giving shadow then it attracts the water and lets it seep in .
this is the construction site for a new water retention space in tamera .
wherever you work with soil you can read the signs of erosion .
topsoil should actually form a thick , living layer everywhere on the ground which enables rainwater to filter in .
but , this layer has been eroded away .
now the topsoil lies in layers many meters thick in the bottom of valleys or is found as mud in rivers .
the surface of fields and sites higher up is depleted and barren .
de-centralized water retention landscapes give the water time to filter back into the earth body .
people always have the same questions , always the same worries , where will all this water come from ?
in such dusty dry soil without streams or a river .
how can i build a lake here ?
people have simply lost the knowledge of how to use the catchment area and the rain , the blessing of the water in the right way .
when i use the catchment area , thereupon , the lake will fill very quickly .
how much water can change a landscape in a short time .
we can see here , comparing tamera before the creation of lake 1 and today .
water retention landscapes can be built everywhere .
anywhere on earth .
a water retention space must not be sealed with concrete or plastic .
it is enough to build a dam out of natural material at the narrowest point of a valley .
you dig a ditch until you reach an impermeable layer .
on that solid ground you apply layer after layer of fine material , like moist clay and drive on it and roll it to build the water barrier .
this water barrier is the core of the dam .
for the outside of the dam i take course material , it doesn 't have to be dense and water-proof . of course ,
i will also have to compact it by driving on it and rolling it .
and like this , i build the whole dam , the water barrier in the core nd on the outside in a slope of 1 to 2 , 1 meter up and 2 meters along , like this i build the two layers together , up to the top .
the water retention spaces have winding banks , shallow and deep zones , a diverse vegetation of water plants and are built aligned to the prevailing wind direction this way the water is always moving , is enriched with oxygen ,
the water in a water retention landscape stays fresh and alive by itself .
since we created the first retention space , we can already keep much of the water from the winter rainfalls on the land .
in this way in can unfold its full healing capacity , the wildlife is responding and is returning and the vegetation is recovering .
we can plant fruit trees again , the forests recover and we can grow our food for people and for animals in the direct surroundings of the first retention space .
the water which used to run away and which is now stored here is at the same time also having an impact on the whole groundwater system .
in the first year , a spring developed below this lake which now gives water throughout the year .
since we built this first dam , we no longer have such big variations with a lot of flowing water in winter when it 's raining and droughts in the summer .
we have a more constant water situation throughout the year , which is of course a huge benefit for nature .
nature shows you how this works , you just have to ask her , have to contact her , to communicate with her , then you will be fine anywhere on earth .
ask nature , think with her and not against her .
put yourself in her place and you get all the answers you need .
make room in your head so that natural thinking has space to happen .
a forest garden is a three dimensional garden of useful plants .
so there 's trees , shrubs , ground cover plants , perennial plants all designed to maximise beneficial interactions and minimize competition , designed to be sustainable in the long term by having plants that feed other plants by having plants for bees to sustain a pollinating population ,
sustainable from other ways too , because most of the plants are perennial , you know trees or smaller plants and so the soil is not dug most of the time and not digging the soil is really important in term of sustainability
because every time you dig the soil , a lot of carbon goes into the air .
this is chinese dogwood , which is as you can see , a fantastic beautiful plant in flower but actually has a very nice edible fruit which follows later in the year .
apart from food , there are various other things you can grow and i do in this forest garden so i include medicinal plants ,
i include plants for dying , for basketry use , plants for fibers , there are of course a lot of bee plants , sometimes plants are here specifically for bees , so you might look at a particular plant in this forest garden
and i won 't necessarily harvest that plant myself it might have a system function in terms of feeding another plant , or it might be here specifically for bees because if flowers are at a good time of year for bees
and so on . so there is plants for all sources of different uses .
there 's ... i think forest gardens will have a role to play they are ... you know there is an awful lot of interest at the moment in forest gardens .
of course mainstream agriculture of course is completely dependent on oil , and you know what happens to oil will have a big effect and of course the oil price will may certainly go up and up over the decades to come ,
because , you know , demand will exceed supply . in this country particularly , you know , tree ... you know , farmers don 't tend to know much about trees and foresters don 't know much about farming and agroforestry which is kind of in the middle of the two
therefore is quite ... seems quite difficult for people and farmers to access because , you know , they are not comfortable with trees .
so that 's a potential problem that could slow down , you know , the implementation of more agroforestry based systems on farming .
but i think it needs to happen and i think slowly it will happen but ...
i think it will take ... unfortunalety i think it will take a crisis or two , you know a serious crisis or two , to actually jolt the powers of be into actually you know , making it happen quicker .
this is one of my main salad leaves from the forest garden , it 's the young leaf you use , this kind of leaf , not the old one , the old ones would be tough .
an interesting parallel to times which may be coming you know , when in the cold war years the soviet union did a lot of fruit breeding because they wanted to be self sufficient in fruit , you know , they didn 't want to have to import fruit from a long distance ,
well typically from , you know , the west .
and so they did a lot of interesting fruit breeding , this is one of the plants they bred in fact , and you know that has a parallel in that ... of course in the moment , as a country , you know , we import a lot of our food and there is no reason why we couldn 't , more or less ,
grow most of it here .
and of course that 's got to be sensible from our sustainability and our resilience aspects , it 's got to be sensible and our governments haven 't got it yet .
forest gardens are resilient because of the ... because of the diversity , really .
so , it 's diversity of structure so lots of different plants at different levels but also diversity of species , so this forest garden has about 550 species in it , which is probably more than most because i am doing a lot of research and experimenting as well ,
but , it 's very common for forest gardens to have 200 species and , you know , the majority of which would be food plants you know which ... to ask when we 're used to , you know , eating 20 types of vegetables or something ,
you know if you 're talking about 200 types of food plant , people , initially , might be slightly overwhelmed , but actually ...
i regard that as actually proving much more normal than relying on 20 you know i think ... if you look at if you look at our near relatives , things like orangutans they regularly eat 400 different types of leaf and fruit ,
they know everyone , they recognize every one , you know they know exactly what they are picking that 's no reason we couldn 't do the same .
and i suspect ... you know diverse diet will lead to more resilient people as well .
bamboos are fantastically useful plants and of course in china and japan or other parts of asia they use bamboo for more things that you could think of .
this one is growing about 20 cm a day at the moment , because of this warm weather so ... and you can actually hear them growing , bamboos are the only plants i can claim to have heard growing because when it 's growing that fast and you put your ear near the top
you can hear the fibers unfurling and crackling away .
so , if i just cut the top of that , and cut it down in the middle , it 's very interesting inside , you 'll see ... you can see what are going to be the nodes which are these bits on the bamboo cane
and everything inside this white or light green is edible , so you peel of the outer leaves and then the inside bit is edible you normally steam that ... just steam it for 5 or 10 minutes and then ... because they 're normally bitter raw .
this garden is now 16 years old and ... i 've certainly seen i 've seen climate changes in that time mainly , you know , increased average temperatures and fewer spring frosts .
dry springs is something that most farmers hate because they 've just sawed all their spring crops , or horticulturists for that matter , you know , and dry weather is just what they don 't want in spring so that can be quite severe in terms of growing annual plants
so , you know , obviously if you 're growing perennial plants a dry spring is , more or less irrelevant you know , won 't have very much effect at all and similarly , you know , extremes of weather at other times of year are gonna have much less effect
on perennial crops than on annuals as a rule .
fungi are probably the most important organisms of all in this forest garden , and of course most of the time we don 't see it because they are under the soil surface and ... the fungi i am talking about are mycorrhizal fungi
which are beneficial fungi that form relationships with almost all plant roots .
and they do some amazing things :
when they form an association with plant roots they basically give the plant hard to get nutrients because fungi can get those out of the ground much more efficiently than plants and the plant gives the fungi some sugars in return , so it 's kind of symbiosis .
but they do other things as well , they protect the plant from diseases and ... they move nutrients around in natural ecosystems and in something like a forest garden if there is more nutrients of one sort in one part of the soil
and a lack in another part of the soil , this fungi will move it , physically move it from one place to another and then the tree in another place will use it .
so that 's how things like nitrogen from my nitrogen fixing trees gets around to fruit trees that need it the fungi move it for you .
the other thing that this fungi do , which has really just been discovered in the last few years is critical in sequestering carbon in stable states in the soil .
so without them you wouldn 't get sequestration into the soil .
and of course you don 't get these fungi where you dig the soil .
and this huge potential you know for sequestering more carbon into the soil you know ... and certainly you know , everybody seems to want to do that but ... but to do that , you gonna have to move to a much more perennial system .
this is pokeroot which is a quite a well known american wild edible .
weedy shoots that come through which tend to be at the beginning of june so it 's kind of very late spring crop really and the shoots come as really thick like you can see here .
you cook those and they have a sort of healthy asparagus flavor to them really , really substantial vegetable .
but poisonous when it 's raw , you know , so you have to cook it but there 's lots of plants you know that we eat have little poison in one state or another otherwise i think if potatoes were discovered now they probably wouldn 't be allowed in this country
because you know green potatoes are quite poisonous .
i mean my estimate is that you could certainly feed 4-5 people of an acre of forest garden .
i use a lot of aromatic plants down in my perennial layers so a lot of different side sauce of mint for example and lemon balm or oregano , and other herbs some of which of course is harvested but ,
it 's doing some useful functions that 's some useful functions even if you don 't harvest it down this layer because you know they are rich in essential oils , mints and other aromatic plants and essential oils are anti bacterial and anti fungal so having those in the understory layers should have a protective effect you know for other plants in term of reducing bacterial diseases and fungal diseases .
the medlar is a fantastic fruit tree which a lot of people don 't know but you can see the young fruits here these grow to about 3-3.5 centimeters diameter and ripen on the tree in warm summers otherwise you pick them
at the first frost and taken indoors and then they ripe in with are sort of very sweet sort of date , baked apple type flavor to them really nice edible fruit ... and also , you know , again very low maintenance it doesn 't have any pests or diseases it just looks after itself .
monoculture crops have been dominating all agriculture research for hundreds of years and even now you know mainstream agriculture scientists they don 't like looking at more than one crop in one place , it makes things very complicated for them .
this is sichuan pepper which is obviously a commercial crop grown in china mainly but it 's a shrub as you can see a largely shrub and you can see it has just finished flowering it 's just starting to form the peppercorns here
and each of those will form a roundish fruit so the black seed in the middle and a sort of pink shell round the outside .
it 's actually that pink shell which is the spice you don 't have to use black pepper if you have something like this .
welcome to the new afrika shrine .
tonight femi kuti is going to be playing on stage his regular sunday jump .
all afro-beat lovers , music lovers from around the world come here to have a ball .
and a ball they have .
you 're a white man , yeah , and i 'm a black man !
africa , one love !
shoki oh !
femi oh !
femi has a show at 9 : 00 .
but , being a good musician , he 's doing the right thing :
he needs to rehearse , do his voice training , play his sax , tune it before the show .
even if you come on monday , when we 're not working , you 'll still hear him playing his sax , his trumpet , maybe his keyboard ... he does that all the time .
in the bathroom , he plays his trumpet !
hey , your tickets , bros !
your tickets !
femi live and direct !
brothers and sisters , welcome to a sunday jump at new afrika shrine , and the last day of recording of our new album .
anyway , say your feet come here all the way , in these times of trouble in our country , no money , no salary , no hospital , everything ...
so you come all the way from apapa , victoria island ...
fadeyi , isale awori , ajuwon , omole ... and all over lagos !
we 're delighted that you are here with us tonight .
you say : " they talk too much for sunday jump , " we 're here to make you happy , give you the good vibes you deserve .
yesterday dem tell us say
say today na we go gain
so we struggle suffer dey
for this new democratic change
but the truth of the matter be say
them disguise another way
to continue their crooked ways
o yes dem bobo
dem bobo your mama
dem bobo your papa
dem bobo your granmama
dem bobo your granpapa
dem bobo the market women
dem bobo your journalist
the human right activist
in the name of democrazy
we have about 2000 people on tuesdays and thursdays at rehearsals .
and it looks like many of them feel part of this place , feel like this is their home .
they feel like my life revolves around their life , they feel like they 're part of what 's going on here .
i just thought that if they feel part of it , why don 't i make everything open ?
so that i have no secrets when i am writing a song .
everybody 's here while i do it .
i feel comfortable because of the life i 'm living .
so ... i know them , it 's like a participation .
they 're all like " what 's on the next album ? . "
all of you vote for it .
i 'm confused myself .
tell me what you 'd love to say ...
let me tell you ...
can 't buy me and shoki , we want them on the album !
what we can do for you is this : we can vote democratically .
democratic elections !
yes !
put your pen away , and be practical .
and so we say :
i say :
" shotan ? " yeah ...
everybody loves shotan .
no , so we cannot do that for all 18 . you 'll choose .
what you can do is , you can go find your supporter 's club .
write an official letter :
" this is what i want recorded ... "
" we contest your presidency ! "
you know you lost , even if you go to court !
go to court , you will see !
you can even appeal !
yeni , can you explain what 's going on ?
some of us are protesting that our numbers didn 't go in the charts .
- you don 't agree with the choice ?
- no , not at all .
we 're complaining about a special number :
can 't buy me .
who dat man talking to ?
him think say him dey talk to fool
him work his way- to come near me
just to come disturb my peace
him ready to dash me many thing
him wants to buy my loyalty
but he can 't buy me
can 't buy me
na so i dey watch am
as him dey boast to me
na so i dey watch am
as him dey yab to me
can 't buy me !
who dat man talking to ?
him start boast of him property
him get land here , him get land there
him don get land for everywhere
him get 12 car him get 10 house
him wants to buy my loyalty
but he can 't buy me
na so i dey watch am
as him dey boast to me
femi , the voice of africa !
ambassador of africa !
your majesty !
his excellency !
positive force !
son of fela ransome !
african president !
ambassador of africa !
you 're the best !
his excellency !
let him through !
we do not have to remind ourselves of the announcement of shotan , also known by the name she were .
do not throw any type of beverage , including ... chelsea , beer , squadron , stout .
if you think i 'm a squadron leader , all you have to do is go to the barracks .
do not throw your don simon or araga .
whatever may be the drink , do not splash water on your fellow human beings , you wouldn 't do it at home .
can you throw it on your father ?
you can 't .
if tinunbu came here , you would be shaking .
as i was saying , do not !
do not throw water on him !
obviously you are too drunk to listen to my announcement , so , let us continue ...
are you crazy ?
have you lost your heads ?
shotan , shotan , shotan
we don tell you many times before
say na you go come to regret
so the government of obasanjo
go carry all of us go for hell
you carry your ponpose self about
you say you no want to hear
now everything don scatter for your face
senior mugo shotan o
shotan , shotan , shotan
they enjoyed it , especially during sunday jump .
did you see how full it was ?
everybody was happy , enjoying themselves , and jumping and everything , which is good .
and then they relax , you know ?
because in nigeria , life is not easy for anyone .
cost of living , there 's no lights , no water , the schools are poor ...
it 's not easy .
the salaries aren 't paid , pensions aren 't paid , so everything isn 't going smoothly .
we want to have somewhere you can sit , forget everything , go there for some time . i think it 's great .
femi 's doing a lot for them that way .
that 's another way of getting to the people .
if he continues like that , there 's no trouble .
there 's no trouble in the shrine when he 's there .
everything 's cool and organized .
whereas with fela , it was tough .
there were always problems there .
there were always problems .
education doesn 't work , hospitals don 't work properly , people are poor , police aren 't paid ...
i mean , no security , life is totally a mess here .
the papers tell us a different story from the reality of our lives .
a lot of people are in pain here now .
even me , i 'm comfortable , but when you see so much poverty , how can you be happy ?
after 40 years of independence , there is no area in nigeria where you have light constantly , water running constantly .
and we call ourselves independent ?
independence means you 're independent of asking for favors .
we can 't say we are independent , because we are still relying on many things to keep our country going .
i wanna be free from all these yeye politics
i wanna be free from all these yeye politicians
i wanna be free from all these corrupt monsters
because of the ideals of femi anikulapo-kuti , he has always found a positive way to project the black man .
we believe in black power , and that we can be trusted .
we want to convey that africans can mind themselves properly .
we want to do away with the myths in black mentality that the black man can 't do what he wants to achieve .
we 're trying to say things can work in africa , if our leaders do the right thing .
but most of all , if no one can do that , we should free ourselves .
i think that femi has found a better way to project this and continue fela 's hope to project the black image right .
to try to create another way to see that things can work in black africa .
i wanna be free from all these corrupt monsters
wey want to chop man
the king is dead
na dem kookuma kill the king for political reasons
dem no fit talk as e be
oya back to politics
dem start to scheme for the same corruption and thief
no plan for you and me
when we dey sleep
dey dem dey meet to plan their evil strategies
to control our resources
african leaders
and their foreign counterparts
e bi like from these evil monsters
we shall never be free
i wanna be free i said every day
every night
i ask myself
why , why , why
chee because fela die
that is why dem dey try to
confuse i and everybody mind
last sunday , i had my beret .
it was stolen today .
what do they want ?
- they stole my beret .
- sanctioned .
what do you mean , sanctioned ?
i told you they stole it !
did you hear him ?
i lent mine to him , over there .
they only gave me the shirt .
isoko , anyone give you a beret ?
he said he doesn 't have it .
i 'm wearing michael 's beret .
i had a beret , last week .
each time we go out in this uniform we hear people yell :
" femi 's child ! "
or " the shrine boys ! "
they do recognize us as one of the " shrine boys . "
fela , himself has already made the shrine popular for all the africans .
so when his son took over for him , people respect him like they respected his father .
when we put on this uniform we look as if we 're close to femi .
it 's hard for people to see femi , so when we wear this uniform , they say " this is femi 's security . "
that 's why we 're proud to wear this uniform .
i 'm proud to be working at the shrine , i 'll always be proud .
when i 'm going home , a policeman will ask me :
" where are you coming from at this hour of the night ? "
i tell him i 'm working security at the shrine .
he asks if i have my id card ,
i tell him i don 't have one .
this is the symbol of where i work .
as long as they can see this , they know that i work for femi .
so they allow me to go .
if dem want to hear we go tell them plenty things
if dem want to see we go show them many things
wey the african man wey the african woman
find it very difficult to succeed
na today dem no say mubotu no good
she na today dem no say company no good
see this african leaders
dem don kill all their people finish
look again obasanjo don kill nigerians
no not obasanjo and his padi paddies
dem dey try to give us different reason
to tell us say obasanjo no guilty
na today dem no say charles taylor no good
na today dem no say mugabe no good
my son omorimade afolabi anikulapo-kuti
see those african leaders rolari
dem don kill all their people finish
as we ought to know the reason why
the african man and the african woman find it difficult to su ... su ...
because you like to drink beer too much !
you like to suck breasts too much !
you 'd like to be sucking pussy too much !
... succeed !
with the dancing ... with the dancing , the anger , the suffering you still find joy and peace .
we 're letting so much frustration out of our system .
and all that is a language , without talking .
there is communication on that . i go to sleep ,
i can wake up the next day , move forward without stress .
if my body 's aching me or my girlfriend or ...
why do we need to have stress ?
and i hope the people who come here have that same kind of vibe .
i mean , what is life ?
to have peace of mind , know what to do the next day , how to deal with life .
so if the shrine can do that to everybody , or anybody , i won 't call it a church or mosque ,
i 'll just say it 's life , shrine .
i won 't say god is here , god is not . god is here , but he 's everywhere .
i will not go under the umbrella of religion , i 'll make it spiritual . it 's limitless .
i will not say :
" this is where to be , " but " at least you can be . "
keyboard !
yeah , i play the base guitar .
i dance .
he plays guitar .
i dance on stage .
i play the trumpet .
i play the shakers .
i 'm a percussionist .
this is the band leader !
if i can take this country , then africa is settled .
once there 's a good government in 1 country , they 'll be liberated .
only one straight , progressive clean government that knows what it 's doing .
no diplomacy , no compromises ,
and no marxism-leninism , no capitalism .
africanism !
the time don come
for me to talk
before i talk
make i thank everyone
for the support you na give my family
during our troubles
you my friends una dey with me ninety-seven
i shall never forget
ninety-seven the pain ! the sorrow !
i want to thank you my friends
jigbolo , jijigbolo , jigbolo !
oh yes i remember
the day all of us we gathered
to pay our respect to the
one and only fela
we carry am go him house
before him spirit go for eledumare palace i say
together we walka
carry fela oh
for those wey no know na that dey them know
say the people them love fela oh
together we walka
i 've never seen anybody in this whole country or in all of africa ...
only 2 people are walking the streets of power :
nkrumah and my mother !
that 's what i 'm talking about !
all these dirty politicians who sit on their asses !
the young and the old the strong and the weak
the rich and the poor
them gathered to carry fela
together we walka
and then as we want start to relax
we no know our problems
just start from nowhere we hear
cousin fran just pass
just like that she die
we start to wonder why
enough is enough
the people start to talk
the problems don too much
again as we start to relax and then suddenly we hear
na the matter of my sister ' sola come make all of us weak for body
again we ask ourselves why
for she was too young to die
as we dey cry na so we dey try
we dey struggle to save her life
the doctors them dey lie
them want to get money to survive
the thing wey dey pain me pass
na the way she suffer before she died
na so them dey cut cut
dey chook chook making experiment with human life
oh my sister ' sola oh oh oh
ninety-seven
ninety-seven i shall never forget
oh yes i remember
music is the way for us . music is the thing of the future .
music is the weapon of the future .
femi takes care of everybody , street boys , everybody .
we live okay here .
in nigeria , only femi takes care of everybody .
he 's concerned about poverty , concerned about corruption , the poor ...
in nigeria he 's a great man , femi anikulapo-kuti , and he did many songs to let people know
so we have a lot of music to let you know what is going on in nigeria and africa .
femi 's making people know , and wants to know more .
if you want to know more , come to the shrine .
that 's all .
he 's like a prophet who has come to make people realize ...
he 's a prophet who makes people realize that they must fight for their rights , like one of his best tracks , democrazy .
and now we realize that the government makes us mad , when you get mad , that 's shotan .
shotan , it 's like the destructive kid the mother didn 't want to have .
that 's what our government made us be .
but thank god , we have the shrine , we have survival .
and we are ready to serve the true prophet .
- not true ?
- it 's true !
we do something for ourselves !
we want to move further ,
we want to go to university !
but our presidents only watch themselves , rule themselves . and the country 's getting worse and worse .
prices always go up , food , people are dying !
food prices .
no light , no good education , no good nothing !
mr. president , we 're begging you !
we fight for our rights , man !
we 're fighting together , doing something for ourselves !
for ourselves , for our lives !
femi kuti tells us how to think for ourselves .
because some people are millionaires , while the country is going bad , bad !
the frustration is too much .
sometimes when i 'm walking i see the policemen beat people like dogs .
the policemen beat us like dogs .
not true ?
it 's true , man !
the afrika shrine be my neighborhood
every night , i 'm there at afrika shrine
the ladies do as they like at the shrine
everybody does as they like at the shrine
every night they meet at the afrika shrine
neighborhood
all africans are my neighbors
the ladies like my neighborhood
the man we call femi is a prophet .
we all serve him .
he 's given us the message to keep the place clean .
we make sure it 's clean .
we have found a survivor , we are pleased with him .
we are happy .
we are people from places like ajegunle and mushin , places where people go without eating .
we 're here , we found survival with him .
we serve him .
that 's why this place is clean .
if i leave for 5 minutes , this place will be messed up .
i must be here to make sure this place is clean .
so he 'll be pleased with me , and i 'll be happy he 's pleased .
bring me
bring me the man now
i believe right now there 's so much energy here .
and you can manipulate this energy for you .
my role is taking the energy of music and transforming it into dance .
if i achieve that , it 's a force .
music is a powerful force .
i take that sound , truly , not trickery or lies .
i take that energy and go pow ...
and make people really go crazy .
how ?
it 's magic .
people ask me how i did it , i don 't know .
because i do the right thing , that energy is using me as a medium to express many things through music .
now that energy is a constant thing , 24 hours a day .
you can use that energy to understand , for many things .
say you have a headache , somebody will be able to just touch your head , you 'll feel a kind of ease because of the true love .
you take the energy : " you have a headache ? where ? "
and that person will have calm .
i beg live me
no disturb me with nonsense gist
the fine things of life these people don 't see
their bad mind no gree make dem get better dream
with their crooked legs dem walka go redem
but salvation comes from within
seek and ye shall find
definitely with music
whose rich harmonies and melodies
will truly bring peace
all in the name of peace
we fight and kill to find justice
for me na only music
from the voice of the soul we speak
wetin concern me with english
na dem koko greedy dem selfish
my sisters
they bank africa money like the swiss
oyinbo don kill africa finish
femi , don 't go !
the son of fela " baba 70 . "
don 't go !
i think it 's the most challenging place to compose .
if the shrine people love it , then i 'm not worried , really .
i 'm not really worried , because i 'm very critical of myself . if i don 't like it , if i don 't feel something , i will not continue the work .
after the completion of the shrine ,
i found that i was alone , and i just saw myself sinking deep into music .
and on getting where i am in life , i found that the only friend i have , the only thing i can trust , is myself .
and it 's difficult to really trust yourself .
you don 't want to do something , then you do it .
the only thing i have confidence in , in my life , 100 % , is music .
even if you don 't give your life to music , music will take you over .
so , i just let myself go and wherever music takes me , so be it .
i have no worries concerning that .
i 'm not sad .
i mean , i have peace .
sometimes i look annoyed , it 's things around me , or things people said . i am a very happy man , very happy .
sometimes i love being alone , i love being in my own world because this world is crazy .
i don 't see anything in this world that makes sense .
you prefer to be alone ?
i feel safer that way .
don 't forget , i 'm not alone in that respect .
i have the force of music , running like a wild fountain in my head .
that alone , i am never at peace .
and i love the feeling music gives me .
i 'll never compromise that , for nothing in this world .
nothing .
not even myself .
i will starve myself for music .
no way , can never give it up .
out of the way !
calm down !
out of the way !
may your future be bright !
everywhere i go i see injustice
in government and our nonsense policies
marxism , socialism , call it what you want
capitalism all na the same oppression dey
injustice , misuse of power na dem specialty
pretending they want to help the human race 1 , 2 , 3 , 4
wetin dem dey wait for ?
5 , 6 , 7 , 8
dem no say time no dey wait 1 , 2 , 3 , 4
wetin dem dey wait for ?
5 , 6 , 7 , 8 ,
dem just dey waste our lives away
the shrine is the home of all things african .
i love femi with all my heart .
femi is a god in nigeria .
before dem get power dem make promises
when dem get power dem start dem conspiracy
dem dey go dey bobo us , dem go dey post us
you see now time don go , election come again
in africa we say only the lion borns the lion .
and if a lion borns a goat ... there 's a problem .
so , as the lion born the lion , the lion born the lion .
hey , pay attention , fuckers ...
you stole that wurlitzer from my shop .
i want it back .
this isn 't what it looks like .
the gay mafia are after me .
i need this cash !
i know where to find you jukebox , and the ass-clown who boosted it .
someone wishes to buy this cursed business that haemorrhages money .
you 're selling the dealership ?
this place is richard 's dream , and the it 's the only thing holding this family together .
your dream lounge , the summerwind ?
you pinned all your hopes on the only emotion connection you ever had with ken !
the song that he played for you as a baby !
help us get out of here !
oh god !
aliens ?
meghan ?
she is all yours now .
i am having this baby .
baby !
i 'll drive !
oh my gosh , do something !
come back here !
escape the country ?
what ?
good idea , meghan .
oh my god !
no thanks , everyone .
i 'm fine .
hello ?
hello ?
a lot of stupid shit goes through your mind when you 're breaking out of prison .
but when the spotlight is on you and you 've got your nuts in a vise , the only thing that matters is getting the fuck out .
escape is a state of mind .
and there 's no prison that fitzy can 't break out of .
no way !
meghan ?
fitz ?
fuck .
where the fuck 's houdini when you need him ?
oh , for the love of fuck , it 's coming !
don 't worry , miss devon , we will get you to the hospital safe and sound and in time to witness this beautiful , miraculous ....
i need motherfucking drugs .
i got some meth , but it 's prison meth .
i got hash , and oxy contin .
oxy ?
i could use a hit .
get in line .
you 're fucking kidding me .
halfsies ?
i 'm the one in labour .
try to hold off having the kid in the car , will ya ?
it 'll stain the leather and kill the re-sale value .
whoa !
what the fuck are you doing ?
fuck , you don 't have to have it in the ditch !
oh , i 'm not .
get out !
what the hell did i do ?
what haven 't you done !
you 're unemployed , you 've never made it to any of the doctor 's appointments , you 're never around !
i broke out of prison !
for you !
when have you ever done anything in your life for anyone but yourself ?
okay , food for thought .
and since richard is an escaped convict , maybe we can ponder this on the road .
let 's - can we get a move on , please ?
you shut the fuck up !
i will not let you smear your failure all over this baby .
get out of my life , you fucking loser !
hey !
hey !
fuck !
richard !
don 't leave me here with this crazy broad !
oh god !
richard !
richard , i know this is a trying time for us , but it 's also an excellent opportunity to dig deep , and find out what 's really going on here .
huh ?
breathe !
breathe !
no , really , what 's going on here ?
she thinks i 'm a loser !
no , i doubt that 's true .
did you hear me , fitz ?
you 're a fuckin ' loser !
i can 't have my fucking kid thinking his old man is a loser !
let 's work on this in the car !
i have to get the dealership back from those two carbomb-istanis .
let 's figure out how to pay for that in the car !
you get her to the hospital , i 'll take care of the dealership .
and evade the police ?
i 'll call you in an hour .
two hours .
oh !
that 's right !
drive !
find the closest motel !
oh , i can handle this .
i don 't need him .
i 've been through worse .
i told you the kid was a loser .
he 's actually a winner now , sir .
richard has decided to make the baby proud , and buy back the dealership .
the dealership ?
yep .
over my dead body !
you said you didn 't want it .
first rule of business :
lie .
you should be proud too , ali , because you and the baby are having a positive effect on the fitzpatricks .
hey !
hey !
it 's true .
oh ...
what are you doing !
hey !
that 's my truck , man !
you can 't keep me here , you know .
this is a men 's prison .
i 'm a woman .
it is clearly a violation of the , uh ...
geneva convention .
and if i actually get violated , that 's another violation .
so let me take a wild guess ...
you just happened to be in the neighbourhood on the night that your brother and father broke out of jail ?
no , stupid !
i was here because my stupid brother 's stupid girlfriend was in stupid labour , so ...
she is ?
where did they take her ?
what can you do for me ?
i 'm up on tax evasion charges because of my dad 's church scam ...
i want immunity .
by the power invested in me by the town of coverton , i now declare you not guilty , okay ?
they were headed back into town .
daddy and richard were fighting about the dealership ,
ali was all like , " i 'm havin ' a baby , i 'm a fuckin ' idiot ! , " so ...
thank you .
okay .
arrest her .
what ?
aiding and abetting escaped prisoners .
you can 't do that !
put me down !
what the fuck !
gentlemen ...
it 's been a pleasure .
we countersign when we get the money .
you get the $ 500,000 when you sign these documents .
well , it would appear we are in the midst of a mexican stand-off .
i blackmailed elaine fitzpatrick for her shares in this dealership .
you think i 'm scared of you ?
sign !
thank you .
if we did not need the money , never would i sell to that harpy !
they need both our signatures to sell , cousin ...
and right now , she only has yours .
swift thinking , cousin !
once again , the ruptals have tactical advantage .
excellent .
fitzpatrick motors , currently run by the far superior cousins ruptal .
not for long , fucks .
i want to buy my dealership back .
i made a mint on that church scam .
it 's the infirm fitzpatrick !
he too wishes to purchase the dealership !
let 's negotiate .
haggle !
you know , foreplay , for you ethnics .
the flashing lights of opportunity dance around us , cousin !
we will sell the dealership twice !
meet us at the dui .
bring cash .
fuck .
license and registration .
of course .
my name is paco .
paco vasquez .
i 'm on my way to a costume party .
that 's funny , mr vasquez .
you look an awful lot like an apb they just put out ...
ken fitzpatrick .
look , officer , i 'm just trying to do a little business here .
yeah , me too .
i got a buddy looking for you .
a real good buddy , if you know what i mean .
fuck .
the gay mob .
cocksucker !
you say that like it 's a bad thing .
out of the car .
fuck !
hey fitzy !
i can see that orange jumpsuit from 5000 feet !
what the fuck , josh ?
just here to get my stash , and i 'm out of here , man .
no , no ...
fuck , josh , i need your help !
bad timing , fitzy .
i gotta get out of the country before i kill the ruptals .
you leave now , your c.o. ' s just gonna send someone else .
oh god , you 're right , they 're doomed .
